Multiple Olympic and world champion Caster Semenya stole the show at the SA Sports Awards held in Bloemfontein on Sunday night by walking away as the Sports Star and Sportswoman of the Year awards. Semenya was also nominated for the People’s Choice Award where she was up against swimmer Chad Le Clos, long jumper Luvo Manyonga, Bafana Bafana star Percy Tau and WBO bantamweight champion Zolani Tete but the winner was not decided at the time of publishing. The middle-distance star is South Africa’s most prolific medal-winner in athletics‚ having won Olympic 800m gold in 2012 and 2016 and world championship 800m gold in 2009‚ 2011 and 2017. She also won a world championship bronze in the 1500m in 2017. Semenya‚ the Diamond League 800m champion in 2018 and 2017‚ also took the Commonwealth Games 800m and 1500m double in Australia this year and the 400m and 800m crowns at the African championships in Nigeria. She is also the owner of South African records from 400m to 1500m and it came as little surprise when her mentor Samuel Sepeng was named the coach of the year ahead of Dr Suzanne Ferreira and Nico Coetzee. The other major winner on the night was swimmer Chad Le Close who was named the Sportsman of the year where he managed to fend off strong challenge from WBA and Ring Magazine light-flyweight champion Hekkie Budler and Manyonga. Commonwealth Games 100 and 200m breaststroke champion Tatjan Schoenmaker was named the newcomer of the year and she overcame competition from fellow swimmer Minke Janse van Rensburg and sprinter Luxolo Adam. Sportsman with disability award went to Mdodozi Ntutu and Anrune Liebenberg walked away with the Sportswoman with disability while the coach while the team of the year went to Banyana Banayana who have qualified for the African Women’s Cup of Nations in Ghana. Awards Winners Sports star of the year:  Caster Semenya Sportsman of the year: Chad Le Clos Sportswoman of the year: Caster Semenya Sportsman of the year with disability: Mdodozi Ntutu Sportswoman of the year with disability: Anrune Liebenberg Team of the year: Banyana Banyana Newcomer of the year:  Tatjan Schoenmaker Coach of the year:  Samuel Sepeng Volunteer of the year: Linda Hlophe Indigenous games team of the year: Morabaraba Team The Recreation body of the year:  Mavu Sport Development National Federation of the year:  Softball School team of the year: St. Benedict’s College Developing school of the year:  Machakela-Mamodibo Secondary School Sport Administrator of the Year: Virginia Mabaso