For the longest time Moonchild has been embraced everywhere else in the world except here at home, where she has been labelled and called names. But that is changing fast. Speaking to TshisaLIVE fresh off of her #NakedClub announcement, Moonchild explained that Mzansi had been a bit more accepting of her kind of different in 2018. "It's amazing. This whole year has been such a success for me because being celebrated by the black people of my country has been such an amazing feeling. It has always been important to me because I have always wanted to be able to represent others like me, who aren't always a perfect fit in our society." Moonchild shared her excitement for her upcoming performance at Afropunk SA. The Afropunk concert takes place annually in London, Paris, Brooklyn, Atlanta and Johannesburg. Launched in 2005, the festival revolves around an influential community of young people of all backgrounds. People who grace that stage are the influencers, creatives and tastemakers once seen as outsiders, but who now directly affect pop culture. It's a perfect fit for Moonchild. "For the longest time, even before we had the first AfroPunk here at home, I was already someone who was representing that sound and that culture. I could go to a festival where people were just not vibing with my vibe but leave them changed. So it feels great for me to finally be in that space and I know I bring energy and power. I call it the freedom demon. It takes over!" she told TshisaLIVE. Moonchild said every time she's on stage, she is representing a different kind of South African woman. A woman who stands for originality and owning her power across all aspects of her life, including in the bedroom. "SA is definitely changing. I've also noticed that in place of people being scared that I have no filter and I say the things I say, they are know realising that I am not alone and there are many others like me. The thing is we all have sex and it shouldn't be something we don't speak about."