The World Architecture Festival is currently under way in Amsterdam, and each day it is revealing its winners for the best architecture of the year. Among the first day's winners are the Zeitz MOCAA museum by Heatherwick Studio and BIG's Audemars Piguet Hôtel des Horlogers in Le Brassus, Switzerland. Heatherwick Studio's much-acclaimed Cape Town museum, which is carved out of a former grain silo, won in the category of New and Old Completed Buildings, while BIG's hotel, which features a switchbacked, ramp-like roof that will connect to ski trails and to a BIG-designed luxury watched museum, is the top winner in Leisure Led Future Projects. Another South African project was also recognised at the festival. Kate Otten Architects' design of the Law on Keyes in Johannesburg was 'highly commended' in the Office category. Other day-one category awards for Completed Buildings went to the Maitland Riverlink, a public project in Australia by CHROFI with McGregor Coxall (Civic & Community); The Piano Mill by Conrad Gargett (Culture), a tower structure in Stanthorpe, Australia that was custom-built to house 16 reclaimed pianos; and the Hammershus Visitor Centre in Allinge, Denmark (Display), designed by Arkitema Architects and Professor Christoffer Harlang to welcome visitors to the largest castle ruin in Northern Europe. Additional winners among Future Projects include KANVA's Imago, a series of inflatable arches designed to adorn St. Catherine Street in Montreal during a period of construction (Experimental); Monk Mackenzie + Novare's 500-meter pedestrian bridge connecting the mainland of India to the pilgrimage sites of the Thiruvalluvar Statue and Vivekananda Temple (Infrastructure); and 3XN's future International Olympic Committee headquarters in Lausanne (Office). A full list of day-one winners can be found at the World Architecture Festival website, which also features a shortlist of all categories to be awarded over the coming days. The remaining shortlisted categories will be presented to judges, and on Friday organisers will announce the World Building of the Year.