On Sunday evening, 17-year-old Yanga Sobetwa was crowned the 2018 Idols SA winner and while she may be young, the songstress is determined to use her title to bring youth to God through music. Yanga beat out Thato Makape to the crown and told TshisaLIVE that she still can't believe that she won. "I don't believe it. I honestly. Maybe it hasn't sunk in yet, but I don't feel any different from the Yanga I was before it happened," she said. While it has been a norm to see many Idols SA winner produce pop music albums (that frankly haven't always been that great), Yanga said she already knows what kind of music she is destined to make. "From the get go, from when I entered Idols, my vision was always very clear. I want to help bring teenagers closer to God through music and that is through gospel music. I want to make gospel pop music, like vibey gospel music. I can't wait for my album and for people to hear it" Because it has been her dream for so long, she already has a master plan in place and wants to look to the likes of Khaya Mthethwa and Ntokozo Mbambo for inspiration. "God made things happen for me as they have and I know it was all part of his plan for my life," Yanga added. Yanga said winning Idols was a dream come true and the journey has been a magical experience for her. "First of all, I think I am mentally ready. I have been looking forward to this day for a long time. I used to make things happen for myself, like if I didn't have a gig I'd make one happen. At times I would feel overwhelmed with all the work, but I believe that was training for a moment such as this." And all that is great, but she's also a millionaire now. "Of course I'm excited about the moolah, but I'm just going to put it in a fixed account, for a year or so. In the meantime, I'll be enjoying my other prizes like there no need to use that money. I have vouchers which I'll use for shopping and, yeah, I'm just going to enjoy living my dream. I mean it's a million bucks. We are in a recession, and I need to use it wisely." Yanga is also too young to drive her new car, but she isn't in a hurry anyway. She just wants to sing!