Public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan is expected to dish the dirt when he appears before the state capture inquiry on Monday. Gordhan was expected to appear before the commission last month, but deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo’s legal team brought an application to postpone proceedings. Earlier this month, Zondo released a press statement saying there would be an investigation into leaked witness statements. This came after Gordhan’s affidavit was leaked to the media. In his affidavit, Gordhan said he was first introduced to the Gupta family by Zuma. He admitted to meeting Indian businessman Mukesh Ambani in 2010, while he was serving as finance minister, at the behest of one of the Gupta brothers and thereafter only ever encountered the family at public events. He also estimated Zuma’s surprise removal of former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in 2015 cost the economy about R500bn. Gordhan is also expected to reveal details surrounding Zuma’s trillion-rand nuclear procurement campaign as well as pressure he endured from the former president to push through a number of deals, including a joint venture between Denel and Gupta-linked entity VR Laser. Gordhan's predecessor, Barbara Hogan, testified last week. In the first day of damning testimony,  Hogan pulled former president Jacob Zuma and the ANC squarely into the fray of the state capture inquiry, spelling out startling political interference in the appointment of the Transnet group chief executive officer. On her second day of evidence, Hogan testified how Zuma imposed his authority over her portfolio, even shouting at her to stop the Eskom board from firing former CEO Jacob Maroga. Meanwhile Businessman and former government spokesperson Mzwanele Manyi went “freestyle” on the state capture inquiry last Wednesday, insisting he be allowed to respond to allegations made against him – and lead his own evidence. Manyi gave testimony in his capacity as former CEO of the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS). He offered an explanation for the text message he sent to Phumla Williams during her testimony at the inquiry in September. Zondo announced that Pravin's former deputy, Mcebisi Jonas, would complete his second round of evidence on November 26.