Claims of discrimination by Stormers assistant coach Paul Treu following a fractious 2018 Super Rugby campaign‚ have been dismissed after an independent investigation. The exact content of claims made by Treu have not been made public but it is understood he clashed with fellow Stormers assistant coach Paul Feeney. An independent investigation by law firm Bowmans found no substance to the allegations of unfair discrimination or unfair labour practices. WP Rugby made the outcome public on Thursday. According to WP Rugby the comprehensive final report made no negative or adverse findings against any WP Rugby officers‚ coaches or staff members. But with these matters‚ a statement by WP raised questions such as Treu’s continued role as Stormers assistant coach? Or Feeney’s for that matter? The entire coaching staff‚ led by head coach Robbie Fleck is under contract until the end of 2019. “After an extensive investigation process that saw 29 associated people interviewed and numerous documents reviewed in this matter‚ we are pleased that the independent inquiry found that there was no foundation to the allegations‚” WP Rugby chief executive Paul Zacks said. Zacks further added that WP Rugby’s transformation record is a source of pride. “We are eager to put this matter behind us now so we can continue to focus on exceeding all the transformation objectives outlined in SA Rugby’s Strategic Transformation Plan‚” Zacks lamented. According to SA Rugby’s most recent Strategic Transformation Plan update‚ WP Rugby's track record over the past two years puts them at the forefront of transformation in South African Rugby. In the 2017 and 2018 Vodacom Super Rugby seasons‚ the Stormers were more transformed than any other South African franchise‚ while the same can be said for DHL Western Province in the 2017 and 2018 Currie Cup. In addition to this‚ the DHL Western Province U19 and U21 teams and all age-group teams also lead the way in their respective tournaments in terms of transformation. In SA Rugby’s recent report‚ WP Rugby were found to have exceeded SARU’s transformation targets across all male and female‚ age-group and senior provincial and SANZAAR Competitions in both 2017 and 2018. WP Rugby has also achieved transformation off the field compared to other South African Unions‚ with significant representation among coaches‚ team management‚ referees‚ selectors‚ board members and administrative staff. "Despite the favourable findings by the independent investigation in the Paul Treu matter‚ and the pleasing results in the recent SA Rugby Transformation Report‚ we cannot rest on our laurels and will continue to work towards proactively improving transformation within the Union as we seek to ensure rugby is a sport for all‚" Zacks added.