On the eve of the festive season, the Road Traffic Management Corp (RTMC)   is pushing for tougher action against  those arrested for drunk driving  - including making them  spend at least seven days behind bars before they can be considered for bail. In a new  policy proposal  to the department of justice,  the RTMC  asks  that driving under the influence (DUI),  speeding and  reckless or  negligent driving be reclassified in terms of the Criminal Procedures Act. The RTMC wants the department to change DUI  from a schedule 2  to a schedule 5 offence, which would  mean that  motorists arrested for it  would receive harsher treatment from the courts. The proposal recommends that DUI suspects be treated in the same way   as those  accused of serious crimes  such as rape, murder, theft and fraud. At present, many of those arrested for DUI can be granted bail by the police within hours of being taken into custody. Makhosini Msibi, CEO of the RTMC,  said the law needed to be tightened  to fight the scourge of DUI, which he said  was  the leading cause of  road accidents and fatalities, especially during the holiday season. Compulsory day in court "We have engaged the department of justice and continue to do so with a view to redefine the traffic offences," he said. "We want drunk driving to be schedule 5 as opposed to schedule 2. "Currently, if we arrest you for drunk driving you can be granted bail in terms of section 59 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and the senior person at the police station can offer bail. "But if we then escalate it to schedule 5 or schedule 6, it should be a formal bail application [in court]. "Above all, it must not be automatic, you must spend seven days before you can bring the application for bail," Msibi said. But Professor James Grant of the School of Law at Wits University   said  an umbrella approach  would be  futile,   and that a better way to crack down on traffic offences would be to have more   traffic officers on the roads  and  to strictly enforce the  existing laws. "The idea that you're going to curb traffic offences and solve the problem by making it harder to get bail is preposterous," he said. It was also absurd to equate speeding with   murder and rape, Grant said. It might  make sense to classify  DUI as a schedule 5  offence   when it was a factor in a fatal traffic   accident, he said. "If they   are  suggesting that  [DUI]  be given attention, then they can make a proposal that when one is suspected to be responsible for an accident while intoxicated, and a person dies, that could be in schedule  5 and specific arguments could be made for that," Grant said. Visible policing needed "What will curb crime is not the severity of punishment but the certainty of punishment.  So if they could get out onto the road and actually enforce the law, that could make a significant difference." Msibi said the RTMC was seeking tougher action in part because of   the rising financial costs of road accidents for the government. The costs were   unsustainable and represented money that could have been invested in essential services. Last year alone, the 14,750 recorded  road accidents cost the taxpayer  R172bn,    an increase of R9bn  from the previous year. Msibi said the bulk of the costs incurred by the state were related to medical and insurance claims. He said the leading cause of accidents was  drunk driving, followed by reckless driving, vehicles that were not  roadworthy  and motorists who obtained   their driver's licences  illegally without learning the rules of the road.