A Cape Town transport company that drives children to matric balls is allegedly a front for a criminal gang dealing in drugs. Alleged “notorious gang leader" Rudi Lakay, owner of R Lakay Passenger Services, was arrested along with six other alleged “gang” members during raids on six suspected “drug dens” in Kuilsriver on Friday. Lakay on Monday appeared along with 10 other suspects in the Blue Downs Magistrate's Court where they face more than 100 charges including racketeering and drug dealing. Police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk said a substantial amount of cash, two hard drives, and six cellphones were seized during Friday’s raids. On its website Lakay’s passenger company positions itself as a booming start-up which since 2013 has grown into a “very successful business”. The company’s website sports photos of half a dozen brand new Toyota taxis with personalised number plates with his name on them. Close up photos of chrome rims and stylish logos on flashy cars are pictured next to them. The company offers 24 hour transport services every day of the week and claims “prices that fits your pocket” and that “no trip (is) too big or too small”. But for Lakay cars aren’t just business, so when someone stole his beloved rims, he took to Facebook to send a stark warning to the thieves. “My friends place was broken into early this morning and my rims and tyres were stolen. They are VOSSEN’S 19ins with GOOD YEAR tyres. If anyone perhaps knows something or has information, there will be a reward if anyone comes forward and my rims are found. It’s all together 6 rims which were stolen out of the store shed,” he said in the post dated 15 June. “And if there is someone who bought it, return it, because I know my rims. Would appreciate it if someone came forward,” read his Facebook post, which was accompanied by close-ups, and action shots of the rims taken from drag races. His fellow accused are Ike Collins, Johnathan Hermanus, Christiaan Green, Dwaine Rhode, Quintus Booysen, Alneiro Isaks, Mario de Wee, Eben George, Dylon Lakay and Liaan Erasmus. Their case was postponed to November 26 for bail information. “The Transportation Board, Sars, and the Asset Forfeiture Unit form part of the investigation, which is guided by a dedicated prosecutor from the NPA,” said Van Wyk. “The provincial commissioner of the Western Cape, Lt-Gen Jula, hailed the efforts of the officers for executing the arrests and restoring trust in the South African Police Service,” he said. “The arrests of these suspects are in line with the strategy of the provincial commissioner to target kingpins of organised criminal groupings and to seize their assets with the assistance of the Asset Forfeiture Unit,” said Van Wyk.