“Don’t fall for political rhetoric. Apply your mind properly. It is about you and your plight, not about politicians.” These were the words of ZCC leader, Bishop Lekganyane, who addressed tens of thousands of worshippers in Soweto, Johannesburg on Sunday. Lekganyane was speaking to members of more than 30 churches and faith-based organisations who filled up FNB Stadium to participate in the 2018 National Day of Prayer, organised by the Motsepe Foundation. Abuse against women and children, drug abuse, corruption and unemployment were some of the problems spoken about at the event. Lekganyane said he believed the prayer day would bring about great change in the country. “God has never failed us, he never will,” he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa and Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Zweli Mkhize were among the attendees but did not address the congregants. The event booted out the annual soccer derby between Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs, who was forced to move their Telkom knockout semi-final match to  Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Zion Christian Church (ZCC) members occupied most of the seats at the stadium. They could be seen in various uniform colors, mainly yellow, green, khaki and blue. "Things are out control in this country. Women and children are killed every day. People are dying of drugs and politicians are full of corruption," said one of the worshippers attending the event, Itumeleng Moselane, of the Methodist Church. Reluctant to speak to the media, those attending the prayer day could be heard ululating from early morning. "We are sions. We serve a living God. There will be peace in this country," sang congregants who had travelled from all corners of the country. Lekganyane said he was deeply concerned about incidents of gender-based violence in institutions of higher learning. He made reference to a Rhodes student, Khensani Maseko, who was allegedly raped by her boyfriend and later took her life. “What happened to Khensani must never happen to any woman again. “Perpetrators of such heinous crimes must be jailed for a very long time,” added Lekganyane. According to the Motsepe Foundation website, the aim of the prayer day was to: