DJ Zinhle Jiyane is one of several celebrities who've scored big at the 2018 SA Style Awards. The celebrated house DJ has been named the Most Stylish Performing Artist in Music, while TV presenter Nandi Madida and her husband, Zakhele Madida, have been dubbed Most Stylish Couple. Isibaya actress Linda Mtoba has won the award for Most Stylish Performing Artist in Film or TV, while rapper and poet Sho Madjozi got the nod for Most Innovative Style. "You can't help but fall in love with Sho Madjozi. She's fun, sexy, innovative and breaking boundaries musically and culturally," said actress Terry Pheto, one of the judges of the SA Style Awards. "We're celebrating not just who looks good in pictures but those making big moves in their careers," Pheto added. The SA Style Awards — which have been running for 22 years — hands out accolades for the 'Most Stylish' individual in 12 categories. This year's judging panel was made up of 22 people including previous winners and media professionals. Former winners include Basetsana Kumalo, stylist Louw Kotze and celebrity designer Gert-Johan Coetzee. Coetzee said the awards were not about how recipients dressed but about their energy. He said that this year the process got intense, with each judge passionately motivating for their pick to make the cut. "It took us over eight hours sitting together to come up with the final list of winners. It's like a screaming match, but it's all done in love. There were some common names on everyone's list, like [TV presenter and DJ] Lerato Kganyago and [fashion blogger] Sarah Langa-Mackay," Coetzee said. Kganyago gets the award for Most Stylish Media Personality, and Langa-Mackay the accolade for Most Stylish Social Media Personality. The award for Most Stylish Business Personality will go to Johanna Mukoki, who is Kumalo's sister and business partner. Kumalo said Mukoki was as stylish as she was fierce in the boardroom. Other winners are: The award ceremony will take place next month. • This article is adapted from one originally published in the Sunday Times.