A school principal has told the High Court in Johannesburg how former teacher Marinda Steyn had wanted to give all her assets to a friend - and had hidden live ammunition in an oven in her classroom. Steyn‚ 51‚ was sentenced in May to 11 life terms for the Krugersdorp murder spree. Currently standing trial are her friend Cecilia Steyn‚ her daughter Marcel Steyn‚ 20‚ and Zak Valentine. They are accused of murdering 11 people from 2012 to 2016‚ as well as robbery‚ aggravated assault‚ racketeering‚ possession of an unlicensed firearm‚ fraud and identity theft. The three remaining accused have pleaded not guilty. Johannes van Aardt, a principal at Jan de Klerk high school, told the court on Monday that Marinda was appointed as an English teacher at the school in July 2015. He said Marinda was allocated a a classroom that was previously used for home economics and was equipped with ovens. In July 2016, Marinda was arrested in connection with the Krugersdorp murders. A month later, he said, the police visited the school as part of their investigation. "I accompanied the police to Marinda's classroom, which was locked." He said the police found bags of live ammunition in one of the ovens. Van Aardt also told the court that before her arrest, Marinda had asked him to sign as a witness in two documents. "She asked me sign a document in which she was giving the power of attorney to Cecilia for all her affairs." The other document was a will. Both documents were handwritten. The power of attorney reads: "I hereby give Cecilia Steyn full power of attorney ... should I be detained in any way, manner or capacity in jail/mental institution ... be kidnapped, missing, or presumed dead ..." In her will, Marinda bequeathed her entire estate to Cecilia. "Every cent and property that I own and that will become available at my death, I bequeath to Cecilia Johanna Steyn ... to use as she sees fit," the will reads. Van Aardt described Marinda as one of the best teachers at the school. The trial continues.