This year South Africans were offered many apologies. Some were accepted, others were scoffed at. Earlier this week Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba apologised after using his pinky finger as a gesture in response to EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi in Parliament on Tuesday. Gigaba said he was "provoked" and he has been taking "strain." Here are just five "I'm sorry" notes that didn't quite do the trick. Makhosi and Mmusi umqombothi exchange When DA leader Mmusi Maimane tweeted about attending a "special occasion" of lobola negotiations and later celebrating with "umqombothi", a traditional beer, he didn't expect former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza's response. Khoza later apologised for posting that she thought Maimane was "trying hard to be black." Despite her apology, people voiced their dissatisfaction. Adam Catzavelos' Greek holiday "Not one k****r in sight. It's f*****g heaven on earth. You cannot beat this!" This is what Adam Catzavelos said in a video recorded while he was on holiday in Greece earlier this year, while celebrating the absence of black people at the beach. With his family businesses being boycotted and taking a massive financial knock, Catzavelos decided to apologise. His apology statement didn't go down with South Africans, most of whom rubbished the apology, saying it was insincere. "Winnie Sisulu" poster bloopers On August 16, the ANC Youth League planned to host a political lecture at the Municipal Chamber at 4pm, but what confused the public was exactly who the lecture would be in honour of. Someone in the league approved the printing of a promotional flyer with Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's face and the name Albetinah Nonsikelelo Sisulu. Besides creating confusion, Sisulu's name was spelt wrong. The ANCYL apologised but people were still surprised that the poser had made it to the printers to begin with. Zondeni Sobukwe funeral drama When the family of Zondeni Sobukwe prepared to give her a dignified funeral on the morning of August 25, nothing could have prepared them for the drama that would later unfold. The wife of late PAC founder Robert Sobukwe was to be honoured with an official funeral. But there wasn't much 'honour' when tensions arose among members of the PAC and government officials. It was alleged that some PAC members refused to be addressed by ANC officials. The PAC apologised to the Sobukwe family, but what made this apology seem like a case of 'too little, too late' was the fact that you don't get a second chance with funerals. Makhaula's brutal tackle Most soccer fans will remember this year's MTN8 quarterfinal match between Free State Stars and Kaizer Chiefs for that tackle. FS Stars midfielder Makhehleni Makhaula broke the leg of Chiefs winger Joseph Molangoane's leg in a seemingly unintentional but dangerous tackle. Makhuala's apology showed sincerity and understanding for the situation, but for fans of Kaizer Chiefs, it didn't take away from the fact that they would not see the young Molangoane in action for months to come.