Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga on Wednesday announced that he will ask the city council to authorise an independent investigation against city manager Moeketsi Mosola and place him on precautionary suspension. Msimanga said Mosola had committed acts that he believed constituted misconduct and that he planned to take the matter to council on Thursday. "I have reasonable cause to believe that the city manager has contravened the code of conduct for municipal staff members which must be brought to council's attention that is responsible for his appointment." Msimanga said Mosola had failed to perform the functions of his office in good faith and had not acted in the best interests of the municipality which compromised the credibility and integrity of the municipality. "The city manager has used his position and privileges for personal purposes, has prejudiced his office and it's efficiency and has misused his position... to prejudice the interests of political parties," Msimanga added. This comes amid an ongoing spat between Msimanga and Mosola, who is being investigated in relation to an open-ended contract with engineering consultants GladAfrica. Msimanga said since he had brought allegations of wrongdoing against Mosola regarding the appointment of GladAfrica, the city manager had publicly attacked him (Msimanga), the mayoral committee and the municipal council, "all of which compromised the credibility and integrity of the office bearers, employees and the municipality". He said the city was also concerned about allegations of the purging of senior managers who had refused to "play ball" in relation to GladAfrica. This, Msimanga believes, is an effort by the city manager to bring the city to a standstill. Asked if he anticipated any challenges from the EFF and ANC in council to investigate and suspend the city manager, Msimanga said: "We are not purging, but concerned about the mandate we were elected on — that is, putting the people of Tshwane first". "In an effort to bring stability and focus back to service delivery, council must diligently apply its mind to my request and give effect to the intention to suspend if we are to get Tshwane back on track," said Msimanga.