People Magazine has just crowned British actor Idris Elba the Sexiest Man Alive in 2018. As if the actor hasn’t deserved that spot from the time he wooed us as Stringer Bell on American crime series The Wire, which ended in 2008. But now that everyone's on the same page, we found five reasons that confirm Mr Elba is indeed the world’s most attractive man. Although he's officially off the market — he got engaged to model Sabrina Dhowre in February — we're still allowed to dream about him! While he might not have quite pulled off some of the accents he's tackled in his acting career, it doesn’t matter because his voice sounds super sexy anyway. Whether he’s playing a notorious Baltimore drug kingpin in The Wire or Madiba in 2013’s Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom, Elba never loses the ability to make us swoon. Of course, his British roles bring out that sexy voice best. Elba lent his voice to Stella McCartney’s Breast Cancer Awareness drive in October. Having lost his father to cancer, Elba joined the All is Love campaign to help remove the stigma around discussing the disease openly. In the press release, he mentions the taboo of men talking about breast cancer and says men “should be encouraging the women in our lives to go for regular check-ups”. I mean, come on, who can resist a man who cares so passionately about women's health issues? Elba took on motor rallying, street racing and speed boating in the Discovery Channel series, Idris Elba: No Limits. In another series, Idris Elba: Fighter, the actor became a kick-boxer and even suffered concussion, according to The Straits Times. A man who constantly challenges himself is definitely a turn-on. According to his People Magazine profile, Elba also played all kinds of sports in school, has DJed at party hotspot Ibiza in Spain and featured on a Jay-Z song. I mean, what can’t the man do? As Andrea Nagel points out in a Sunday Times article, "there's something about a gorgeous man who's also a devoted dad that ticks all the boxes for women ... Whether they're being all buddy-buddy with their sons or sweet and protective with their daughters, any sincere interaction between them and their little ones renders them irresistible to women." This is certainly true of Elba who has a four-year-old son, Winston, and a teen daughter, Isan. He told People Magazine that he's a "super doting as a dad. Big hugs, kisses, lots of love-yous and all of that". Enough said.