Nothing justified the unrest at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital‚ which saw patients being turned away and rubbish strewn about the corridors‚ the SA Medical Association said on Friday. "Hospitals should be places of safety‚ havens for the ill. Whatever the reasons‚ there can never be any justification of violence‚ especially when it impacts the safety and proper treatment of patients‚" said Dr Mzukisi Grootboom‚ chairperson of SAMA. Protesting workers trashed the hospital in a dispute over unpaid bonuses on Thursday. Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi described the events that unfolded as "sheer acts of hooliganism". Grootboom said the destruction of property was "beyond comprehension as this will take money and time to repair‚ which again places patient treatment and safety in jeopardy. This cannot be the new normal in our country." SAMA said while staff could have legitimate concerns‚ they should not compromise the lives of the most vulnerable. The association called on the provincial health department to resolve the matter speedily as frustration with administrative challenges were creating an environment conducive to unacceptable actions. The Democratic Alliance on Friday put the blame for the chaos at the hospital at the door of the provincial and national government. DA MPL Jack Bloom said that Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa should have anticipated the unrest on Thursday. "[They should have] put in extra security to prevent it happening‚" he said. "There were signs earlier in the week that violence by disgruntled workers was brewing‚ which included tyre burning and blocked entrances on Wednesday. Police should surely have been on standby at the hospital on Thursday as it was likely the violence would intensify‚" he added. Bloom said that Premier David Makhura had "failed to pick up clear warning signs and intervene". Had he done so‚ further vandalism at the hospital could have been prevented. Workers went on the rampage‚ demanding that their bonuses from 2016 and 2017 be paid. Bloom accused Makhura of failing to fulfill promises he made to workers. "Following the trashing of the hospital at the end of April‚ Makhura made promises that workers would receive their bonus pay‚ but the delay in doing this led to the deplorable disruption this week‚" he said. He criticized a call by Motsoaledi for action to be taken against hospital workers who embarked on the strike. About 30 medical procedures that were scheduled to take place had to be postponed. "Motsoaledi now calls for the hooligans to be arrested‚ but why did this not happen (before)?" asked Bloom. He was referring to Motsoaledi's comments at a media briefing on Thursday evening following the chaos. Motsoaledi had refused to acknowledge the strike at the hospital and even called disgruntled staff murderers. "If I could find a person working here as a cleaner or a general worker or whatever that has got the audacity to go into theatre and stop people from performing operations‚ that person is a murderer‚" Motsoaledi said at the briefing. Bloom said: "The Gauteng Health Department has handled this whole matter poorly – they need to settle worker grievances speedily and fairly‚ and also ensure that hospitals are able to provide their essential service at all times." The SA Human Rights Commission also joined the chorus of those who condemned the violence. "Reports indicate that bins and black bags containing rubbish ranging from paper to half-eaten food were emptied along the corridors‚ contaminating what is meant to be a hygienic environment. Further reports have also emerged that protesters have opened taps‚ allowing water to flood and run through entire sections of the hospital‚" commission spokesman Gail Smith said in a statement. The commission expressed concern over alleged threats made to patients and called on the protesters to desist from infringing on the rights of patients. "While the Commission will always support and protect these rights‚ it is of the firm view that these rights should not be exercised in such a way that such exercise infringes on the rights of others‚ in particular the rights of those that are infirm‚ vulnerable and in more urgent need of healthcare services. It is therefore sad that the manner in which workers enforce their rights threatens the lives of the sickly in health care centres. They have no stake in the dispute‚" Smith said.