Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga will know today whether he will share the fate of Athol Trollip, who was ousted as Nelson Mandela Bay mayor earlier this week. Msimanga will on Thursday face a motion of no confidence tabled by the ANC and the EFF. This comes after he asked the council to suspend city manager Moeketsi Mosola over a questionable R12-billion consultancy tender he signed with consultants GladAfrica. If he is ousted, he will be the second DA mayor to fall this month. A motion of no confidence was passed against Trollip on Monday with the help of DA councillor Mbulelo Manyati‚ who abstained from voting. The UDM’s Mongameli Bobani was elected as the new mayor. The DA plans to legally challenge his removal. In a press briefing on Tuesday, EFF leader Julius Malema vowed that the embattled mayor would go. Malema said Msimanga was being used "by the white DA caucus in Tshwane"‚ saying the EFF was willing to vote with the DA in that municipality as long as they present a "credible candidate". Msimanga said he was taken by surprise by the EFF move to oust him, saying he had a good working relationship with the EFF‚ which was instrumental in voting his coalition government into power. He said he always had engagements with the EFF leadership about the municipality. He said that on the Mosola issue‚ he wanted to “put everything on the table” because both his name and that of the municipality were “taking a beating” in the media. On Wednesday, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party fully supported Msimanga. "We stand firmly and resolutely behind the mayor of Tshwane‚" said Maimane. He said Msimanga was fighting corruption in Tshwane‚ something he promised he would do as mayor. However, the Sunday Times reported that in the event the vote takes place through a secret ballot, some members of the DA caucus are ready to vote with the opposition. Msimanga does not see eye to eye with DA Tshwane regional chair Abel Tau, who Msimanga snubbed for a position on the mayoral committee. There are also questions as to how long Msimanga has known that there was a problem with the contract - and how much he knew.  Msimanga claims he only learnt of the full extent of the GladAfrica rot after the Sunday Times broke the story three weeks ago.