The first ballot in 37 years in Zimbabwe was supposed to be marked by pictures of residents casting their votes peacefully, political leaders joining hands at the historic event and hope for a renewed start. Instead, three people died as protestors took to the streets of Harare to oppose the early results announcement. The military had to intervene and pictures of Harare on fire have dominated the newswires. Here's how peace turned to violence in just three days. July 30 Polling stations opened across Zimbabwe at 7am and were scheduled to close at 7pm. It was the first ballot since the ousting of Robert Mugabe. There were no reports of violence. However, MDC leader Nelson Chamisa hints at trouble and says victory belongs to his party. Zanu-PF leader Emmerson Mnangagwa also issued a warning on his Twitter page, reminding Zimbabweans that only the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission was mandated to release results. July 31 Normal life continued in Zimbabwe as voting for the historical election began taking place. Supporters of the MDC celebrated outside of the party's headquarters in Harare after the polls closed without a hitch. Officials dismantled temporary election stations and life went on for locals. Mnangagwa applauded the high voter turn out. August 1 In Harare MDC supporters are out early in the morning. They gathered outside the parties headquarters to wait for the official results. Chamisa puts out a tweet saying the MDC has won the popular vote. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission announces that early results show the Zanu-PF has a firm lead. MDC supporters start gathering outside the results centre and police are deployed. Chamisa thanks Zimbabweans for the support. By mid-afternoon chaos has erupted and military police are deployed as Harare burns. MDC Alliance Presidential Spokesperson Dr Nkululeko Sibanda called the situation in Harare "dark times." Mnangagwa calls for calm. Zimbabwean police confirm an investigation into the violence will take place. August 2 There's calm on the streets of Harare... for the moment. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission said on Wednesday that the presidential results are likely to be announced on Thursday (today). Mnangagwa extends the olive branch to Chamisa. And now the world waits as Zimbabwe decides...