Three South African Airways Cargo aircraft spent five days grounded last month after the airline missed a crucial deadline to upgrade software that allows aircraft to communicate while in the air. The Boeing 737 freighters were grounded by SAA itself after the airline was denied request for extension by the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) after missing a deadline to upgrade the aircrafts’ Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS). SAA Cargo operates one frequency per night between OR Tambo International and terminals in Durban, East London, Port Elizabeth and Cape Town to deliver freight. On occasion they will also do two regional frequencies to Maputo, Harare, Lusaka, Kinshasa, Entebbe and Namibia, depending on demand. “The grounding of the aircraft was self-imposed to ensure compliance to CAA requirement and it was for five working days. Operations resumed on  February 24 2018,” said spokesperson Tlali Tlali.  What’s eating Julius Malema, the Economic Freedom Fighters leader? Why is he suddenly reheating his attacks on independent media houses – this time with the Zuma-esque allegation that they are representatives of whites, “whiteness” and that hoary old chestnut “white monopoly capital”? The answer is simple enough: Malema and the EFF are a fascist organisation that is quickly running out of targets. They need an enemy and the media and whites are the easiest targets around. What is fascism? The Oxford dictionaries make reference to it as tending to “include a belief in the supremacy of one national or ethnic group, a contempt for democracy, an insistence on obedience to a powerful leader, and a strong demagogic approach”.  There was a time when, if something you bought broke, the company got to decide what to do about it. Mostly they chose to repair it, if they could, because that’s the cheapest option. If the product wasn’t repairable, they’d offer a credit note, ensuring they didn’t lose the sale altogether. Seven years ago, the Consumer Protection Act gave consumers the right to choose our remedy – refund, repair or replacement – if something we buy breaks or malfunctions within six months of purchase.