The Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal believes that a “salary” of R1-million a month paid to former president Jacob Zuma by the Royal Security company‚ owned by Durban businessman and ANC-funder Roy Moodley‚ came from the eThekwini municipality. This was revealed by provincial DA leader Zwakele Mncwango after his meeting with provincial Hawks boss Major-General Jabulani Zikhali at the police headquarters in Durban on Monday. The meeting was held to discus a number of forensic reports which the DA believes were not being properly investigated. Mncwango told the media after his meeting with Zikhali that the DA will submit a report to the Hawks around Royal Security's contract with the eThekwini municipality. “I think the major issue for us is that we strongly believe the money given by Royal Security to Jacob Zuma‚ which was R1-million‚ came from eThekwini. We do have some documents that show there was continuous awarding of this contract even though it expired - but they still have a contract with eThekwini even today‚” said Mncwango. Royal Security is one of eight companies that have supplied security services to the eThekwini municipality over the past 13 years under a series of controversial lucrative contract extensions. In October last year‚ investigative journalist Jacques Pauw claimed in his explosive book The President’s Keepers that Zuma pocketed a “salary” of R1-million from a controversial tender mogul without declaring it to the South African Revenue Services. Pauw detailed how a Sars official discovered in 2010 that Zuma had been receiving payments of R1-million a month from Royal Security‚ a company owned by his long-time ally Moodley. The company allegedly failed to pay Sars the necessary Pay As You Earn (Paye) tax on the salary of their “employee”‚ and Zuma also allegedly failed to declare his “salary” from Royal Security to the tax collector. Moodley didn't respond to queries. The DA’s report on Royal Security will be one of the five on their priority list that they will be submitting to the Hawks for investigation next week. The other reports that the DA wants the Hawks to prioritise include: Mncwango said they believed that the Hawks have capacity to investigate these matters and that his party is willing to assist them with information. “South Africans want to know that after reporting corruption‚ after investigations‚ what happens then - because in most cases after investigations we get recommendations that criminal charges must be laid and that lifestyle audits must be done‚ but nothing happens in most cases.”