Convicted Durban fraudster and former local councillor Kessie Nair says he is prepared to go jail for his racist rant against President Cyril Ramaphosa. Nair’s Facebook post and video has gone viral since he uploaded it on Tuesday. In the video‚ Nair‚ who served six years in prison for corruption‚ calls for the president - who he refers to using the k-word - to be “charged for defrauding this nation‚ for oppressing this nation‚ for high treason‚ for being the source [of] all crime and violence and poor healthcare and poverty in this so-called true democracy.” In a written post accompanying the video‚ Nair says: “Let me go down in history‚ becoming the first and last man to [call] the number one citizen‚ the state president” the k-word. Nair goes on to say: “Achieved my goal‚ now I’m ready to die‚ for my intended message is public knowledge. “Tuma mena [sic] [to] Westville Prison‚” added Nair. Speaking to TimesLIVE on Wednesday‚ an unapologetic Nair‚ who also claimed he was once a member of the notorious 26s prison gang‚ said his post was prompted by his "concern" for the state of country. Nair said he did not believe his rant would fuel tensions between black and Indian people‚ but would rather “diffuse” them. “I don’t think I’m being racist. I want to make a point‚ which I did. I am prepared to face the consequences. If the nation feels I was wrong‚ I will accept.” Nair said his family was concerned about his post‚ particularly his daughter. “By putting my thoughts out in the public domain‚ it will get attention‚” he said. Asked why he decided to make such a video‚ Nair responded: “I care about the nation - and Indians are soft targets.” Presidential spokesman Khusela Diko said the post didn't deserve any attention. "He’s clearly a sick person and his racist rant is not deserving of any airtime. His tirade against the president demonstrates delusional and attention-seeking behaviour. We have no doubt that his views do not represent the majority of South Africans working hard to build unity and shared prosperity in this country.” Diko urged Nair’s family and friends to give him the support he needs. Nair is one of a number of South Africans whose recent racist rants have landed them in hot water. Businessman Adam Catzavelos recently catapulted to notoriety after a video went viral of him using the k-word to celebrate the fact that there were no black people around him on a beach holiday. Durban teacher Danielle de Bruyn resigned from Westville Girls’ High School in the midst of a racism scandal that centred on her use of the k-word‚ for which she later asked for forgiveness. Suzanne Govender from the ANC Youth League in eThekwini resigned after being accused of using the k-word against her comrade in a social media rant. In the most recent incident‚ a video went viral of a City of Johannesburg official hurling racial abuse at a security guard at the Eldorado Park swimming pool.