Chopping the roof off a car that started life with a fixed ceiling means compromising structural rigidity. But what it may lose in stiffness it gains in cool factor. There are exceptions. Nissan once made a convertible version of its Micra, which was never sold here. We did get the Chrysler PT Cruiser cabriolet, however. And Peugeot took the tin opener to their B-segment 206 and subsequent 207 models. Lest we forget, the larger 307 and 308 were also recipients of a haircut. You cannot say with conviction that any of these humdrum hatchbacks became any more desirable sans cover. On the other scale of the spectrum, dyed-in-the-wool performance cars that were first bred as coupés are destined for an immediate bump in allure, in drop-top guise. Ignore what ardent propagators of purity in driving dynamics say. The inevitable body flex — or scuttle-shake would go unnoticed, or would not matter, during that ripe hour in which one gets the opportunity to soak up the rays and feel unified with nature. As the foundation for a sparkling al fresco machine, the BMW i8 is nothing short of excellent. Tongues were wagging when the model was launched in 2014. The manufacturer billed its creation as the most progressive sports car ever. And that tagline still holds water. Shrewd choice of word there, opting to position their i8 as a “sports” car rather than one you would dub “super. ” Because once the battery powering its electric motor is depleted, the three-cylinder engine in the middle would find itself second best in a robot-to-robot duel against certain hot hatchbacks. The output of the electric motor is quoted at 105kW and 250Nm; while the boosted 1499cc engine is good for 170kW and 320Nm. Ideally, you could drive for 53km without the internal combustion part of the mix kicking in. In fairness, its intelligent technical make-up means that the i8 does not need oodles of power for respectable pace. Relying heavily on the use of carbon fibre and other lightweight composites, the i8 boasts a modest kerb weight of 1,595kg. Alas, any wonderment surrounding the minutiae of its oily bits takes a backseat, when you see the cloth of the i8 Roadster peel back and fold away neatly. The process itself is an awesome party trick that leaves mouths agape, since operation can be executed while outside the vehicle. Owners will surely master the art. Hold the unlock button with the key fob furtively tucked into your pocket. As you approach the undressing car, keep your nose pointed skywards in a nonchalant way, like a haughty French poodle strolling through James & Ethel Grey park in Rosebank. Maybe Instagram the theatrical display once or twice for good measure. Rinse, repeat. But seriously, the attention this i8 seizes borders on problematic. Throngs of observers wielding their smartphones will congregate when you park it. Indecent proposals will be made. Relationships are likely to be ruined. Sage advice: just leave the shindig early, by your lonesome and enjoy the open-air charms of the i8 Roadster in peace. Allow me to assert that this variant of the model further enhances the virtues of the original coupé. It weighs negligibly more (60kg) than its counterpart, a result of the additional toughening-up of the body structure that had to ensue. BMW describes the whole packing as “intoxicating” but that will depend on your definition of the word. Because like its sibling; the Roadster still leaves the impression of a cosseting tourer as opposed to a thrill-a-minute speedster — à la BMW M2 coupé. Which is just fine. Serving as a showcase of innovation for the brand, the four-year-old i8 still stands prominently as a future-forward package amid a field of more traditional players. Roadster format undoubtedly makes it even more covetable. All yours for R2,329,300.