Lucky Matome is living a double life. By day he is a police spokesperson and constable on the beat. By night, a kwaito star dropping beats. "This past Friday I was making arrests, and then Saturday I'm on stage," laughed Matome, 37, who performs under the stage name Scylash. The career cop from Kagiso in Krugersdorp, Gauteng, has been nominated in the best new kwaito artist category at the Mzansi Kwaito & House Music Awards for his song Let It Drop. "When I perform there are opportunities for people to be doing something illegal, like drinking and driving. "But I always make light of it. I get on stage and say: 'People, you need to behave. Remember, I'm a police officer.' The crowd loves that." Matome started his policing career in 2001 in Krugersdorp before being redeployed to nearby Tarlton on the West Rand. He has won seven awards in the service. But before Matome was a cop, he was a musician with a group called Jalumsi. They released their first album, Nambad, in 2000. "With Jalumsi we got a bit of publicity and made our TV debut on the SABC show Ezimtoti. We were also on the e.tv breakfast show, The Toasty Show." Jalumsi took off, sharing the stage with the likes of TKZee Family and DJ Fresh. The band toured Namibia and Lesotho. In 2000, Matome took a break from music after his father suggested he put his schooling first. But the music was always there and he rebooted his career three years ago. "I met producer Ivo Dos Ramos. The first thing he said when he heard me record was 'I've been looking for you'. Ivo was the one who suggested I go indie [independent]." Matome started Scylash Entertainment and his first signing was the group Masoja, who featured on his first hit, Makaper. "I also want to show people it's possible to do the things you want to do in life. You can be a professional musician and do your day job." Matome's colleague Lt-Col Katlego Mogale said she was not surprised when she found out about Matome's alter ego. "He's a talented guy. If you can be a doctor and a golf player, it's the same thing. Why not?"