Dear electorate‚ under an Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) government you will neither own your house nor will you own your farm because the party wants to nationalise land. That is according to ANC economic transformation chairperson Enoch Godongwana who said the state cannot be trusted with that responsibility‚ hence the ANC would not go that route. Godongwana‚ addressing the African Farmers’ Association of South Africa (Afasa) at the Ekurhuleni International Convention Centre on Wednesday‚ said any expropriated land under the ANC would go directly to the people‚ "not via the government" as the EFF proposed. Godongwana warned those who wanted to vote for the EFF to do so at their own peril‚ adding that under an EFF government they would lose their houses and farms because the red berets wanted to nationalise all land. He further added that the state had already failed to distribute the portion of land in its ownership as things stand‚ therefore trusting it to own all land would be "a mistake". Moreover‚ said Godongwana‚ land redistribution had failed since 1994 because of corruption wherein the government was in some instances opting to buy far more expensive land while there was a cheaper price elsewhere. "If you don't want to vote for us‚ fine‚ you can vote for the EFF if you understand what they are saying [on the land issue]‚" said Godongwana. "The difference between us and them is that they say they want to nationalise land which‚ in other words‚ means every piece of land including the farm that you own‚ when they take over‚ is not going to be yours. "You will lease it from government and the house that you own is not going to be yours‚ you will own the walls but not the land. "That is not what the ANC is saying. We are saying we will expropriate land for public purpose and distribute it. That is the distinction.” He said the ANC would not expropriate commercial farming land as government property. “We have seen the mistake of putting more land in government's hands."