Sbahle Mpisane has for the first time spoken to fans from her hospital bed to express her gratitude for the overwhelming support since she was involved in a car crash on August 9. Sbahle seems to be well on her way to a miraculous recovery after fighting for her life in hospital for weeks. Her brother, Andile Mpisane shared a video on Instagram which has given fans a first look at Sbahle and her healing process. Sporting a nice long weave, a black velvet gown and makeup, Sbahle gave a brief speech in the video to thank her family, friends and fans for all the support she has been getting since the accident. Sbahle's hospital room was filled with flowers and get well soon balloons. "Hey guys today is the 11 of September, it's my parent's anniversary and we are very excited. And also I am sick today. Thank you guys all the fans for helping make me feel better, all the presents and everything else. And my sister for bringing me a present today. I love you guys, I love my parents so much and I love my brother for all the presents you brought for me. Thank you guys, thank you guys again," she said. Watch the video below. Three weeks after the car crash those close to Sbahle were overjoyed that she was strong enough to enjoy her first solid meal. "She's rapidly progressing thanks to her medical team. She had her first meal yesterday and was fed by her granny who was so excited. "It was a light meal of mash and gravy supplied by the hospital and the nursing sisters started feeding her and gogo couldn’t believe she was eating. She decided to take centre stage in feeding her. That alone gives us a clear indication that she's recovering well considering the accident," Sbahle's father Sbu Mpisane said last week. Sbahle's boyfriend and soccer star Itumeleng Khune has been asking the country to pray for her ever since the crash. He regularly updates his social media with the small victories in Sbahle's healing progress, like his recent post after having a conversation with her. "Speaking to you always makes my heart melt. Be strong Queeno," wrote Itumeleng.