“All it takes for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing‚ but in this case a lot of good people chose to do something.” That is what Magistrate Juan Voogt said on Wednesday when he sentenced Mpumelelo Dubula‚ Tsetsewa Mahlaba‚ Bongani Floyd Mbonani and Thokozani Ndabele to two years in prison for dog fighting. Benedict Ngcobo‚ Gift Nkabinde‚ Sabelo Mtshali‚ Thabiso Mahlangu‚ Bongani Skakane‚ Lehlohonolo Nomadola‚ Thulane Dhlosi‚ Mxolisi Khumalo‚ Nkosana Masilela‚ Sipho Masombuka were found guilty of being spectators and sentenced to two years correctional supervision (house arrest) and 360 hours of community service. They also have to pay the National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) R50‚000. One accused pleaded guilty earlier and was sentenced to pay R20‚000 or 20 months’ imprisonment suspended for five years if he does not reoffend. Two accused who have been convicted are still awaiting sentencing. Voogt said the human race should ensure that animals were unharmed and that dog fighting tore at the moral fibre of society‚ because the violence was abhorrent and reprehensible. TimesLIVE reported that the raid in Tsakane‚ Ekurhuleni‚ in November 2013 was described as the biggest in 18 years. Then NSPCA acting chief executive Este Kotze described the scene the police and NSPCA inspectors found as “horrific”. The raid took place as a fight was in progress. They rescued 14 dogs‚ but only one survived as the rest were seriously injured and euthanised. Walls nearly 3 metres high‚ solid steel security gates and lookouts protected the privacy of those watching the blood-letting inside. Kotze said the fight was one of several and attendees were placing bets. Drugs for humans and animals were also found. She said the dogs were bred for fighting and mated with pit bulls. “None of them had been stolen. Each was bred by this fighting community and used to fight over an extended period.” The NSPCA said in a statement: “All the convicted men were found unfit to possess firearms and found unfit to own dogs‚ and‚ if found in possession of a dog‚ would be liable to 12 months’ direct imprisonment.” The NSPCA’s Special Investigations Unit is working on 58 dog fighting cases involving over 200 dogs. On Friday 20 men will appear in the Lenasia Regional Court on charges for allegedly taking part in dog fighting.