Nkuli Mlangeni of The Ninevites is passionate about using design to give new life to rich traditional craft methods. Her latest project is a collection of handwoven rugs and blanket throws using local mohair. Inspired by patterns used in craft forms in southern Africa, such as pottery, mural painting and beading, this new range is a collaboration between The Ninevites and women artisans from the Western Cape. Designer Anne Hodgson may have a background in clothing design but these days she finds herself carving incredible one-off wooden pieces. It's her firm belief that products should be useful as well as beautiful and well-made, which is why she focuses on utilitarian items such as spoons, boards and spreading knives. Each of her handcrafted pieces is unique, simple, strong and finely finished - made with intent to last and to be handed on to the next generation. Photographer and artist Amor Coetzee has turned her creative eye into a successful business with her design brand Dayfeels. Along with clothing and illustrations, a large part of Dayfeels is her ceramic work: functional, one-of-a-kind earthenware pieces with a comforting, handmade feel. Experimenting with texture, contrast, abstract shapes and patterns, Amor is inspired by African landscapes, the ocean and properties of water for her minimal, powerful pieces. A few years ago city girl Estée Viljoen relocated to a sheep farm in the Karoo, and into the worst drought in memory. Wanting to help both the farm and small communities around her, financially and emotionally, she started a project to create gigantic 100% merino blankets. These beautiful, proudly local items, sold under the brand name Mooo, have created jobs and added value to her family's sheep farm. And glamour to the homes of her happy customers. Perfect_IMPerfect is the brainchild of Laurien Murphy and Manoushka Kraal. A passion for local traditional crafts led them to collaborate with women weavers in rural KwaZulu-Natal. Together they have created a quirky series of products that tap into global trends. Traditional items such as baskets, bags and mats are given a modern twist with bright colours, word art, whimsical tassels and pom poms.