The ANC women and youth leagues have urged the youth to use the mourning period for the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela to reflect on her struggle and the baton that they have to pick up and take forward. The leagues both delivered messages of support during the opening of the tribute wall for the late struggle stalwart outside Luthuli House on Monday. Secretary general of the ANC Ace Magashule penned the first message on the wall. “We must not forget who she was [and] her fight in the struggle of this country. We must always remember as young women that Mama fought for us with other women like Mama Albertina Sisulu and Mama Tambo. “We must always remember as young people that the struggle for women still continues and we will always remember her [Mama Winnie] as our heroine. Throughout the country we will be celebrating her life. It is not a time to cry but to celebrate a life well lived‚” said Meokgo Matuba‚ secretary general of the ANC Women’s League. Njabulo Nzuza‚ secretary general of the ANC Youth League‚ said the youth must learn from the fallen heroes and heroine of the struggle. “They must learn that it is not just about themselves but also about the good of the country. Young people need to build their own political consciousness and understand that they have a role to play in this country…We hope that the ANC‚ from now on‚ will prioritise young people just like Mama Winnie emphasised on the priority of young people and identified problems faced by young people as a ticking time bomb…‚” Nzuza said. There are a number of memorial services organised by the ANC and government which will take place across the country as it pays tributes to Mama Winnie. “The secretary general of the ANC last week declared on our behalf that Tuesday is going to be the [day of] the national memorial service of the ANC. This now takes place in Bhizana [in the Eastern Cape. On Wednesday is the government programme [at the Orlando Stadium]. On Thursday‚ the ANCWL will join the women of Umanyano of the Methodist Church‚ a denomination that Mama Winnie belonged to. Friday is reserved to the MKMVA for the night vigil. All of us will join it there. “The [ANC] Youth League has already advised us that a contingent of the league throughout the country will be arriving and filling Orlando [stadium] as of Friday‚” said ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe. Born Nomzamo Winifred Madikizela‚ Mama Winnie died on April 2 after a long illness at the Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg. She was 81 at the time of her death. The funeral service for Mama Winnie will be held on Saturday at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto.