South Africans turned out in thousands to bid final goodbyes to 'Mother of the Nation'  Winnie Madikizela-Mandela who was laid to rest with full state honours on Saturday. Mourners filled the 37,500-seater Orlando Stadium in the township of Soweto where Madikizela-Mandela lived and erupted into loud cheers as the casket carrying her remains was wheeled in. The casket draped with the multi-coloured South African flag was placed in the middle of the stadium in front of a stage, decked in white and yellow flowers. Mourners dressed in the colours of the African National Congress (ANC), as well those of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), sang “there’s no-one like Winnie“, an adapted popular liberation struggle song. In a moving, yet fiery eulogy, her daughter slammed her mother’s critics. “It was my mother who kept his (Nelson Mandela’s) memory alive,” said a teary Zenani. “South Africa, and indeed the world, holds men and women to different standards of morality.” She added that "praising her now that she is gone shows what hypocrites you are". “They robbed my mother of her rightful legacy during her lifetime,” she said of Madikizela-Mandela, who she praised for taking on “one of the most powerful and evil regimes of the past century". EFF leader Julius Malema gave a fiery, yet moving tribute to the late icon, who treated him as a son and was known for supporting him during his political troubles. “Mama those who sold you out to the regime are here. They are crying the loudest more than all of us who cared for you‚” he said addressing the late icon. President Cyril Ramaphosa offered an apology for the country’s failure to honour her for her contribution to the liberation of the country. “I’m sorry Mama that your organisation (ANC) delayed in according you its honour. I’m sorry that we delayed this much, to this point,” he said in an eulogy. As soon as speeches drew to a close, stormy clouds formed over the stadium, followed moments after by heavy rains that drenched mourners and the funeral procession as it drove out to a cemetery in Fourways, 40 kilometres away. The funeral closes the final chapter in the history of a woman who was exalted for her fearless defiance of apartheid rule but also implicated in violence and corruption in later life.