Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt says log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns have been the best team in the domestic topflight this season. Hunt made the observation after going down 2-0 to Sundowns at the weekend and he noted that counterpart Pitso Mosimane's Brazilians are way ahead of Wits in terms of quality‚ class and resources. Hunt lamented the two key mistakes committed by Phumlani Ntshangase which allowed Percy Tau to feed Themba Zwane and Sibusiso Vilakazi to wrap the match in the first half. "Look‚ we gave two goals away‚" Hunt said. "The same player (Ntshangase) committed the same error twice. It's criminal. Crazy. "But you don't plan for things like that. We gave them a start. They were better in the first half and in the second we were much much better. "But then it was over already. We managed to change the shape and the balance in the second half. "But then we were chasing and we chased quite well. "We did okay in the second half‚ but then the game is over by then already." Wits lost by the same 2-0 margin against Sundowns in the first round and it was Zimbabwean striker Khama Billiat‚ who was out with injury on Saturday‚ who did the damage last year. Hunt said they would now have to take it game by game and hope they gather enough points in their last four matches in order to finish in the top eight in a season they were expected to do much better after winning a maiden league last year. The wily Hunt said it would take miracle for the Brazilians to loose their grip on the league title. "It was a disappointing result for us‚ but they are far better than us‚" he said. "They have the quality and we don't have that. "Yeah‚ they got the back-up as well. "They got the resources‚ they got more than enough. "They are the best team this year. There's no doubt about that." On his own side‚ which lacks the intensity and the fighting spirit they had when they won the league last season‚ Hunt said they needed to make an overhaul at the start of the season. "Our season was poor‚ we needed overhaul and we didn't do it. We'll have to do it now‚" he said. "We need a positive response in our next league matches... people are playing for their careers so we need a positive response. "We can't worry now about where we're going to finish. We need to concentrate on the next game. Take one game at a time."