As my colleagues know, I will grab any chance to put a picture of Jason Momoa in Lifestyle. And who wouldn't want to look at him? He's tall, gorgeous, sexy, with a body that looks like it's sculpted from marble. He's a manly man, he seems to have a fun personality (as his Instagram videos show) and, well, he's Jason Momoa. But now we have a credible reason to put the man on the page: he's coming to South Africa for our inaugural Comic Con. Lovers of gorgeous men rejoice. Everyone else - hold onto your lovers. But who is Jason Momoa and why should you care that he's coming to our shores? Here are five things you need to know about him. Momoa played the Dothraki warlord Khal Drogo in season one of the biggest show on earth. His character was the brute Daenerys Targaryen was forced to marry, but they soon fell in love (even though he raped her repeatedly in the beginning). She became his Khaleesi (queen), a name she has retained even after his death on the show. One of her dragons (Drogon) is named in his honour. He started his career on the not very good Baywatch: Hawaii (his father is Hawaiian, although Momoa was raised in Iowa). He said in a 2017 interview about the show: "I was 19 and running around with no clothes on and saving people. But it gave me my passion for acting ... It led to getting no respect for about four years and I couldn't get an agent to save my life." He later got a role on Stargate Atlantis and bit parts in other TV shows before landing his big gig on GoT. Momoa plays a revamped, hardened-up version of one of the least-cool superheroes in the DC Universe: Aquaman. The character, who now has extensive tribal tattoos and is a hard-drinking merman, is king of the seas and he made his proper debut in the lukewarmly-received Justice League film (he had a blink-and-you'll-miss-it appearance in Batman v Superman). WATCH | The origins of Aquaman His solo film, Aquaman, is out in December. While being introduced at a San Diego Comic-Con panel in 2017, the panel host said to Momoa: "It makes sense that you're Aquaman because everyone's super wet right now." With the #MeToo movement gaining traction, a 2011 video of Momoa making a rape joke resurfaced online. The backlash was intense, as it should have been, and he very quickly apologised. "I am still severely disappointed in myself at the insensitivity of my remarks that day. I know my sincerest apology now won't take away those hurtful words ... I made a truly tasteless comment. It is unacceptable and I sincerely apologise with a heavy heart for the words I said," he wrote on Instagram. After his stint on Baywatch, Momoa's career stalled, so he travelled the world and found solace in rock climbing. He often shares videos of his rock- and wall-climbing adventures, and is best friends with Chris Sharma, considered one of the best climbers on earth. In addition to rock climbing, Momoa enjoys manly man things like making axes (yep), wearing Metallica T-shirts, drinking a lot of Guinness and riding motorbikes. Grrr! • Comic Con Africa takes place from September 14 to 16 at Johannesburg's Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit and International Convention Centre. Visit comicconafrica.co.za