The leaders of North and South Korea signed a declaration on Friday agreeing to work for the "complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula". At their first summit in more than a decade, the two sides announced they would seek an agreement to establish "permanent" and "solid" peace on the peninsula. The declaration included promises to pursue military arms reduction, cease "hostile acts," turn their fortified border into a "peace zone," and seek multilateral talks with other countries, such as the United States. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un promised to ensure that the agreement reached with the South's Moon Jae-in at a summit Friday would be implemented, unlike previous pledges. The two Koreas will closely co-ordinate to ensure they did not "repeat the unfortunate history in which past inter-Korea agreements...fizzled out after beginning," Kim said after a summit with the South's President Moon Jae-in. "There may be backlash, hardship and frustration on our way," he added, "but a victory cannot be achieved without pain". Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe welcomed a historic summit between the two Koreas on Friday, urging Pyongyang to take "concrete action" on the peninsula's denuclearisation and other issues. "Today President Moon Jae-in and Chairman Kim Jong Un held earnest discussions about North Korea's denuclearisation. I want to welcome that as a positive move toward comprehensive resolution of various issues concerning North Korea," Abe told reporters in Tokyo. "We strongly hope that North Korea will take concrete action through this meeting and a summit between the US and North Korea," he added. Russia on Friday praised a landmark summit between the leaders of the two Koreas as "very positive news", saying direct dialogue on the divided peninsula was promising. "This is very positive news," President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. "Today we see that this direct dialogue has taken place (and) it has certain prospects," he said.