Books are powerful! And World Book Day on April 23 2018 is a celebration of this. It’s a celebration of authors, illustrators, books and – most importantly – reading. In fact, it’s the biggest celebration of its kind. World Book Day is observed in more than 100 countries on different dates in the year and in different ways. In some places in the US, it is celebrated by having a big street festival. In the UK, publishers and booksellers get together to give away book tokens to all children at preschools and schools. The children can then take their tokens to their local bookshop and exchange it for a free book. In Spain, World Book Day is celebrated by having a two-day-long reading marathon every year! In South Africa, World Book Day is a partnership between everyone who is passionate about getting children to love books and reading. We use this opportunity to make everyone more aware of how reading can be a satisfying and enjoyable activity – and, of course, to invest in our children’s literacy. But World Book Day is not the only time we should turn our attention to reading with children. Young or old, children love being read to. Although it’s not always easy to fit reading time into our busy daily lives, just 15 minutes of reading with a child every day makes a huge difference and will help them fall in love with reading, grow their vocabulary and spark their imagination. Books can shape the way we think and feel. They inspire us and allow us to dream and to imagine. Books help people to share what they know and understand with people they have never met. They offer us the opportunity to understand our own experience of the world by reading about the life experiences of others. Books have the power to change our lives! This World Book Day, spend time reading stories with your children. Visit the Nal’ibali website or mobisite for free stories in a range of South African languages. Share the power of books with your children by reading them Sisanda’s Gift by Gcina Mhlophe, then do the "Get creative!" activity at the end of the story. Winners were chosen by Jennifer Platt, the books editor of the Sunday Times newspaper. She says: "I'm always in awe of Nal'ibali's powerful campaigns to engage young readers and this is an especially encouraging one. Language is power and our mother tongue is the language we feel in, dream in. "It's important that we read in words we know, understand and are comfortable in, so that we can express ourselves, have pride in where we come from and learn that education is not exclusive." Two lucky readers can win 10 books each week and donate them to a school, reading club or library of their choice. The third runner-up will win a Nal'ibali reading-at-home starter pack. Books are donated by Tiso Blackstar Group and Jacana Media. To enter, contact patti.mcdonald@tisoblackstar.co.za before 5pm on April 26 and give one reason why we need to read to children in their mother tongue. Include your name, cellphone number and physical address. Winners will be chosen within two weeks. Terms and conditions apply.