A 24-year-old woman purported to be Jacob Zuma’s bride-to-be delivered a baby boy in the Busamed Hillcrest Private Hospital on Thursday April 12, the same day the former president turned 76. Doctors delivered the baby of Nonkanyiso Conco, of the plush Hilltop private estate at Zimbali, KwaZulu-Natal, by caesarean section on Thursday. She had been listed in hospital records, obtained exclusively by TimesLIVE, as “Mrs Zuma”. Conco confirmed on Friday that she was expected to become the former president’s seventh wife, but abruptly ended the conversation when quizzed about the birth of her child. The paternity of the child could not be verified at the time of publishing and Zuma's personal assistant refused to comment. Several well-placed hospital sources confirmed that Zuma had visited his wife-to-be on Thursday when the baby was delivered. His platoon of protectors closed off a section of the maternity ward while he spent time with the woman who is 54 years his junior. TimesLIVE earlier reported that Conco had confirmed she would wed the former president. “Yes, we are getting married, but that is all I can say. I need to consult before I give any interviews,” she said. She would not comment on their courtship and their relationship in general. Conco is a director of the Pietermaritzburg-based Nomkhubulwane Culture and Young Development Organisation, aimed at protecting the cultural practices of young Zulu women. Zuma, who has always been a proponent of polygamy, is currently married to MaKhumalo, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma and Bongi Ngema Zuma. He is divorced from Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and separated from Nompumelelo MaNtuli Zuma. His second wife, Kate, committed suicide in 2000. The birth of the child and news of the upcoming nuptials come as the elder statesman is embroiled in a slew of legal challenges, the most recent being his indictment on charges of corruption and racketeering relating to the arms deal. Zuma appeared briefly in the Durban High Court on corruption charges on April 6. The case was adjourned until June 8 to allow for a review application. His lawyer‚ Michael Hulley‚ indicated that by mid-May‚ Zuma intended to file a challenge to National Prosecution Authority head Shaun Abrahams's decision to put him on trial. Moreover, Zuma wants to intervene in the state-capture legal saga in his personal capacity - so he can fight an order that he must personally pay the case's estimated R10-million legal costs bill.