One of the most famous people in SA and the world is Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela. You know. The first black president of the country. Struggle stalwart. Global leader. But it seems we've been missing some pages in Madiba's bio because apparently he played hockey. Yeah not soccer, not rugby but hockey. Now the Madiba we know and love is that guy who did 27 years in prison. He was a freedom fighter and husband to the iconic Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. In addition to being a trailblazer, he become the first black president of SA in a democratic election and is adored by many people both locally and internationally. Most of us in Mzansi know Mandela's history like the back of our hands, clearly the same can't be said for the rest of the world. Okay, we get it. Maybe we could also brush up on our descriptions of people like Eleanor Roosevelt and Martin Luther King. But to be honest, most people in the free world have an idea of who Mandela is. In fact, at times, Meyndela (as they pronounce it) is one of the few Africans they care to know about. Well... this guy (Jonathan Barnier, a Canadian professional ice hockey player who was playing for the Toronto Maple Leafs) proved that he knew a different Mandela in an interview back in 2014. And since we've been asking mama for a signal, this video came up again and just went viral. His award-winning description of Mandela goes something like this: "Well obviously growing up, he's one of the most known athletes in the world. Uh, a lot of impact in all of the sports he did. You know even playing hockey." Then comes the punchline at the end: "Everyone knows him right?" Well, to answer his question... yes! Everyone knows him, but obvs not him. The video resurfaced on the net after Mama Yvonne Chaka Chaka and Unathi Msengana saw and shared it on their timelines and just blew up again. Side note: A moemish on the net will never die. Stay woke. Look, all we saying is he could have just said soccer fam, at least we would've been able to imagine it. *sigh* Maybe it's ignorance. Maybe he never expected such a question. Maybe he knows another local Mandela that side. It could also be that perhaps he's talking about a Mandela of a parallel universe.