German police said Thursday they had arrested a suspect in an anti-Semitic attack against two men wearing traditional Jewish skullcaps in central Berlin. A video of the assault, filmed by one of the Israeli victims, went viral on social media and sparked widespread revulsion amid fears of a resurgence of anti-Semitic violence, including from Muslim migrants. Police said that a 19-year-old suspect they had already identified from the footage and witness statements had presented himself with a lawyer and would face a judge to be held on assault charges. Bild daily identified him a Palestinian from Syria named Knaan S. who was registered at a refugee home in Brandenburg state outside Berlin but was most recently living “out of a suitcase” in the capital. The video shows the attacker, one of a group of three men, shouting “yahudi“, Jew in Arabic, and lashing out at his victim with a belt. In a twist to the story, the author of the video tape, a 21-year-old student called Adam, said he was an Israeli who grew up in Arab family in Israel and he was not, in fact, Jewish. He told broadcaster Deutsche Welle that he wore the Jewish kippa gifted to him by a friend to see whether it was safe to do so on the streets of his upmarket Berlin neighbourhood. He said he uploaded the video “for the police and for the German people and even the world to see how terrible it is these days as a Jew to go through Berlin streets“. A number of high-profile incidents in recent months have raised alarm bells about a possible resurgence of anti-Semitism in Germany from both the far-right and a large influx of predominantly Muslim asylum-seekers since 2015. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday the attack in Berlin was “absolutely dreadful” and stressed any form of anti-Semitism would be dealt with firmly and decisively. Merkel also stressed there was anti-Semitism among both German nationals and people from Arabic-speaking areas. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Germany “bears a responsibility to protect Jewish life” more than 70 years after the end of the Holocaust in which the Nazis murdered six million European Jews. The head of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Joseph Schuster, said he was “shocked” by the incident, noting that it had occurred in a “bourgeois” area and not in a “majority Muslim quarter“. “This case must be met with the full force of the law,” he said.