South African football woke up with a massive hangover on Sunday morning as the credibility of the local game suffered another blow with lawless violence and mindless destruction that followed Kaizer Chiefs’ Nedbank Cup semifinal defeat at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. A security guard‚ reportedly a woman‚ was fighting for her life in hospital after being callously set upon by a group of thugs in full view of the stadium and much of it captured by spectators and posted on social media. She was repeatedly punched and kicked and after falling to the ground‚ a man in khaki trousers and black shorts hit her about the head with part of the speaker system‚ which was dotted around the stadium‚ and had been destroyed as thugs ran onto the field and break everything in sight. An estimated R5-million damage was done to expensive television and audio equipment‚ including an entire camera belonging to the SABC being set on fire. There was also damage to cars outside‚ the plastic seating and advertising hoardings as the pitch was invaded on the final whistle‚ angry as Chiefs failed to get to the final. There were also other injuries‚ including a young ball boy traumatised by the wanton destruction going on around him. Whether he still harbours any romantic dreams about the game is doubtful. Police and security guards proved inadequate in holding back the invaders‚ questioning again the effectiveness of security at high profile domestic matches. Clubs are forced by the Premier Soccer League to spend heavily on security at all matches but rarely does this security prove effective when put to the test. The police drove a single riot vehicle onto the side of the pitch‚ behind the Chiefs’ bench‚ towards the end of the game when people in the crowd began to throw missiles in the direction of Amakhosi's embattled coach Steve Komphela. Effective security would see in-crowd stewards move quickly to eject those perpetrators but that did not happen and the rain of objects increased as the game headed to a close. On the finals whistle everyone on the field fled down the tunnel‚ including many policemen‚ allowing the invaders to set about breaking everything they could get their hands on – including the large audio speakers and television cameras. Much of it was caught on social media and there would be enough evidence to trace‚ identify and arrest those involved should the police call for public assistance. But‚ as evidenced repeatedly in the past‚ the sense of morale outrage after incidents like this at the domestic games‚ quickly washes away. Similar random acts of violence at Loftus Versfeld more than a year ago when Orlando Pirates fan ran amock and a rival supporter was beaten in similar circumstances were never followed up and the perpetrators of evil and uncalled for violence allowed to get away with their crime. Dwindling crowds have long been a problem for the PSL‚ ever more so in recent years‚ and they have seemingly refused to adequately address this issue. Saturday’s images will further discourage people from attending games. There is now a real credibility crisis brewing that could get a whole lot worse for the PSL if sponsors begin to pull out because they do not want to be associated with such scenes.