An investigation into former spy boss Arthur Fraser by the country’s intelligence watchdog is going ahead after intervention by the Minister of State Security. The Inspector-general of intelligence‚ Setlhomamaru Dintwe‚ said his investigation into the activities of the former spy boss were being frustrated by Fraser who had stripped him of his security clearance‚ threatened and intimidated him. The two were expected to face off at the High Court in Pretoria on Thursday where Dintwe sought an interdict to prevent Fraser from interfering with the probe. But the case did no go ahead. Dintwe explained in a statement that “on the eve of the hearing”‚ the Minister of State Security had set aside the withdrawal of his security clearance and given an undertaking that the investigation into allegations of wrongdoing by Fraser would not be meddled with. Fraser was transferred to the position of national commissioner of correctional services on Tuesday‚ shortly after the intelligence watchdog accused him of bullying tactics. Dintwe said that the minister and acting director-general of intelligence had “undertaken to the court and the inspector-general‚ that they will not interfere with and cooperate with the Inspector General’s investigations. The Inspector General welcomes these undertakings and commitments.” He said the removal of Fraser from his position as director general of the State Security Agency did “not bring an end to the … investigations into the allegations against Mr Fraser‚ and these investigations will continue”. Fraser was implicated in the alleged mismanagement of state security funds in a book by author Jacques Pauw who‚ in The President's Keepers‚ claimed that a huge sum of taxpayers' money was wasted on a project headed by him. Fraser maintained in an affidavit to the high court that he was safeguarding South Africa’s national security when he revoked Dintwe’s security clearance whom he accused of conducting a “malicious” fraud and corruption investigation.