Luc Eymael has had no contact from Kaizer Chiefs about the possibility of being their head coach next season‚ the Free State Stars coach has stressed. Stars meet Chiefs in Saturday's Nedbank Cup semifinal at Moses Mabhida Stadium. That encounter has been spiced up like a Durban curry by reports linking Eymael to Chiefs‚ where Amakhosi's current coach Steve Komphela's chances of renewing his contract that ends in June have become increasingly slim as he approaches a third season trophyless at the helm of the Soweto giants. Eymael‚ though‚ who has transformed Stars from last season's relegation candidates to a top-five PSL team this campaign‚ and Nedbank semifinalists‚ is adamant he has had no contact from Chiefs. Sitting alongside his general manager‚ Rantsi Mokoena‚ in a press conference at Stars' offices in Bethlehem on Tuesday‚ Eymael was asked about the links to Chiefs. "I was surprised that you didn't say the name of SuperSport [United]‚ because every call that I receive‚ it's‚ 'Is it true that you are going to SuperSport‚ and to Kaizer Chiefs?'‚" Stars' coach responded. "Now‚ because we are playing against Kaizer Chiefs you are insisting on that. And it's rumours. I don't believe in rumours. "I speak frankly when I say that up until now I have never been contacted by Kaizer Chiefs. And up until now I have not been contacted by SuperSport United. "Other teams in the PSL have contacted me‚ and Mr Rantsi knows this very well which ones‚ so many times. "Sometimes they call me when I am just in front of him and people say‚ 'Are you alone?'‚ and I put [my phone on] the speaker for him to hear. "Because I am frank. I have nothing to hide. Once I was contacted by Sfax [from Tunisia]‚ and I told him. "People have asked me about being contacted by the national team of Uganda. Before I was at Stars‚ yes‚ but not since I have been here. "I have been contacted by Zamalek [from Egypt] some days ago. Vita Club‚ my old team [from Democractic Republic of Congo]‚ called me some days ago. But I informed my GM [Mokoena]. "And if I'm contacted by a team and if I think that I can move‚ the first person who I will go and see is my boss. Because he's very honest with me and I'm very honest with him. "But up until now I have not been contacted by SuperSport‚ and not by Kaizer Chiefs." Eymael said during the course of the current season he has been contacted by at least four PSL clubs enquiring about his services.