Many stories for children have been adapted over time from stories that were originally created for adults. In fact, translators have often been responsible for crafting and reshaping stories across time and space to suit their different audiences. Think of Aesop’s fables. Aesop was a slave and storyteller in Ancient Greece in the 5th Century BCE. For centuries his stories moved across continents and were told and heard in many languages. They first appeared in print in 1484 – as stories for children, and in English. Even today, new versions of these stories continue to be created. Many famous fairy tales have different versions around the world. For example, across Africa and Europe, in Russia, Appalachia, India and Japan, versions of the Grimm’s fairy tale, Hansel and Gretel, are told and read. So, the history of children’s literature is a history of translation. Through translation, stories from Greek, Latin, Hebrew, French, Italian and Asian languages have found their way into English. In South Africa, Pinocchio, originally written in Italian, has become Pinokiyo ngesiXhosa and is now appreciated by children who do not necessarily know that the story came from Italy. Stories that originated in Africa have been retold in many languages too. All over the world people read the popular trickster tales featuring Hare, Tortoise or Spider. These stories use animals with human qualities to entertain and teach, and to share wisdom and understanding about human nature and human behaviour. At the moment there are not enough children’s storybooks in African languages, either as original writing or as translations. But the numbers will grow as people get to know, choose, read and talk about storybooks with their children, and request storybooks in their languages of choice. As citizens of the world, we are curious about each other and learn about each other as we tell and retell our stories. Nal’ibali is growing a collection of stories in a range of South African languages. You can find them on the Nal’ibali website or mobisite. Expand your children’s world! Read them the story of Neo’s imaginary adventure in Neo and the big, wide world by Vianne Venter, then do the Get creative! activity at the end of the story with them. Winners were chosen by Jennifer Platt, the books editor of the Sunday Times newspaper. She says: "I'm always in awe of Nal'ibali's powerful campaigns to engage young readers and this is an especially encouraging one. Language is power and our mother tongue is the language we feel in, dream in. "It's important that we read in words we know, understand and are comfortable in, so that we can express ourselves, have pride in where we come from and learn that education is not exclusive." Two lucky readers can win 10 books each week and donate them to a school, reading club or library of their choice. The third runner-up will win a Nal'ibali reading-at-home starter pack. Books are donated by Tiso Blackstar Group and Jacana Media. To enter, contact patti.mcdonald@tisoblackstar.co.za before 5pm on April 26 and give one reason why we need to read to children in their mother tongue. Include your name, cellphone number and physical address. Winners will be chosen within two weeks. Terms and conditions apply.