Retired police crime statistics expert Dr Chris de Kock has detailed how he was accosted and hijacked at gunpoint‚ metres from his Pretoria home‚ in November. “They came around the corner and hijacked me in the middle of the street‚” he told TimesLIVE in Pretoria on Thursday. De Kock‚ who headed the SA Police Service’s Crime Information Analysis Centre (CIAC) for almost two decades before retiring in April 2013‚ said the traumatic incident happened in broad day light‚ at around 1pm. He said his attackers were in the middle of a house robbery in his neighbourhood when they were cornered by private security guards who were chasing after them and they were looking for a getaway car. De Kock said the assailants‚ who he said were being pursued by at least 10 private security vehicles‚ first hijacked a delivery truck but the vehicle was not as fast as they wanted because it was heavily loaded. “They actually came for me and the bakkie had crash bars in front so they drove right into my car…I had nowhere to get around because it was on the bridge and they jumped out with their guns‚ with 9mm (pistols) and told me to open the car and pointed (the guns) at my head and pulled me out of the car‚” he said. De Kock said the incident had taught him that‚ if you fall victim to a hijacking‚ do not look into an assailant's eyes‚ do not resist and do not try to remove anything from the car. “I mean they pushed the gun against my head and I just calmly got out of the car‚ they actually pulled me out of the car and I just turned my back and walked away‚” he said. He said the incident was also an eye-opener for him as it showed that you can fall victim anywhere‚ at your gate‚ in a parking lot or at a filling station. De Kock said he was grateful that he was alone in the car‚ saying this was not his first brush with violent crime. He said when he was still in the police‚ there was an attempted house robbery at his house but he managed to chase off the attackers. De Kock said he was also robbed of his cell phone‚ at knifepoint‚ just outside the police headquarters in the Pretoria CBD. “So this is not the only incident. It shows you that we are all victims of crime. It is actually a pity that we all become victims of crime‚” he said.