Colombia striker Leonardo Castro introduced himself to the Kaizer Chiefs faithful in the best way possible when he beat Baroka goalkeeper Virgil Vries to score a delightful strike that will have made the club’s supporters speak in tongues at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Sunday afternoon. Recently-signed Castro’s 83rd minute sublime effort gave Chiefs a priceless away 2-1 over Baroka and also helped avenge the league defeat that AmaKhosi suffered against the same opposition in September last year. Baroka had got the ball rolling when Talent Chawapiwa turned his markers with the grace of a ballroom dancer on stilettos‚ glided past the bemused Chiefs rearguard and then fired a low shot that beat goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune. But even though he beat Khune‚ Chawapiwa’s beautifully executed snap shot could not find its way into the back of the net and it was denied by the upright. Chawapiwa had the look of a man who had just been told he could no longer judge Miss Universe when the ball crashed against the upright. But former Mamelodi Sundowns striker Lucky Nguzana put him out of his misery when he reacted the fastest as the ball rolled back into play and he beat Khune with a low shot that snaked past the Chiefs goalkeeper to give Baroka the 1-0 lead. The Peter Mokaba Stadium was about as silent as a funeral procession after Nguzana’s opening goal. But Chief made amends soon after the restart in the second half when AmaKhosi striker Ryan Moon equalised through a clinical header. The Baroka goalkeeper did not know much about the goal and he will probably rely on television replays to give him an idea of what happened. Castro then gave Chiefs the win late in the game when he scored the winning goal on his debut in an AmaKhosi shirt after his move from Mamelodi Sundowns. Chiefs have been about as unpredictable as a nest of rattlesnakes under embattled coach Steve Komphela and this win will have even excited those who did not expect it. Kaizer Motaung’s club has blown hot and cold all season and even their staunchest supporters will not have expected the away win against opposition that has proven traumatic. It was Chiefs’ second win of the year after beating Polokwane City 2-1 a week ago and this victory will have lifted confidence levels in the south of Johannesburg. Baroka beat Chiefs 2-1 away from home at FNB Stadium in September last year and the Limpopo side will have fancied their chances in their own backyard at Peter Mokaba stadium. Chiefs play log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in their next league match in a game that can either strengthen the Naturena side’s title credentials or dismiss them. The result moved Chiefs to third on the premiership standings.