SA Rugby on Monday confirmed that the Springboks will have two home Tests in 2019‚ instead of the scheduled one. An extra Test against Argentina‚ to be played at Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria on August 10 was added‚ to take the Springboks pre-World Cup tally to four Tests before the tournament kicks off in Japan next week. The Rugby Championship has been cut short because of the World Cup. As a result the Boks will play three matches‚ two away against New Zealand and Argentina and one at home against Australia. The Wallabies will meet the Boks at Ellis Park while the Boks will play against the All Blacks in Wellington‚ scene of their famous 36-34 victory this year‚ which is also a pre-curser to their World Cup clash in Yokohama on September 21. The Boks' third Rugby Championship match is away to the Pumas at a venue still to be decided. The second clash against Argentina falls outside the Rugby Championship. Super Rugby kicks off on the weekend of 16 February and will run interrupted until the final on Saturday 6 July‚ which means no June incoming tour in 2019. Jurie Roux‚ the CEO of SA Rugby‚ said he is delighted that Springbok fans will now be able to see their team in two home Tests next year. “The extra match against Argentina in Pretoria means Bok fans will have a fantastic opportunity to see Siya Kolisi and his Springbok team in action in a second home international‚” said Roux. “The match against the Pumas will also give [coach] Rassie Erasmus a final opportunity on home soil to prepare the Springboks before the announcement of the final squad for the Rugby World Cup in Japan.” Kick-off times and ticketing details for the Johannesburg and Pretoria Tests will be confirmed next year. The Springboks’ confirmed Test matches for 2019: Rugby Championship 20 July: South Africa vs Australia‚ Emirates Airline Park‚ Johannesburg 27 July: New Zealand vs South Africa‚ Westpac Stadium‚ Wellington 10 August: Argentina vs South Africa‚ venue TBC International match: 17 August: South Africa vs Argentina‚ Loftus Versfeld‚ Pretoria The Springboks’ 2019 Rugby World Cup Group B match schedule is (with local and SA times): Saturday‚ 21 September: South Africa vs New Zealand‚ International Stadium Yokohama (18h45 / 11h45) Saturday‚ 28 September: South Africa vs Namibia‚ City of Toyota Stadium (18h45 / 11h45) Friday‚ 4 October: South Africa vs Italy‚ Shizuoka Stadium (18h45 / 11h45) Tuesday‚ 8 October: South Africa vs Canada‚ Kobe Misaki Stadium (19h15 / 12h15)