Pearl Thusi and NBA star Serge Ibaka once again sent the rumour mill into overdrive with more 'proof' that they're romantically linked. This after Pearl was spotted at a Toronto Raptors game in Miami and was seen partying the night away with other basketball wags including Gabrielle Union. While neither Pearl or Serg have officially confirmed the speculation, all the arrows point to one direction. And, if you've been paying close attention you will know that a romance has been brewing behind the scenes for months. It is also believed that Pearl caught Serge's eye when he jetted into the country for the NBA Africa Game. In August 2017. Here's a snapshot into the Pearl Thusi and Serge Ibaka love story... Pearl was still nursing a broken heart after her split from Robert Marawa when she apparently caught the eye of the 29-year-old Congolese-born Spanish basketball player at the NBA Africa Game in August. But rumours of a romance first started earlier this year when Pearl and Serge both shared similar snaps from a trip to Barcelona. Although they were careful not to include each other in them, it was clear that they were both in the same place, at the same time. Coincidence? Nah. A post from the time apparently also shows the pair with actress Gabrielle Union, who is married to Miami Heat basketball player, Dwyane Wade. The pair continued to tease about their new romance on Instagram Stories, where videos are by default deleted after 24 hours. According to Sportsgossip.com Pearl was spotted at Serge's home and attended several of his basketball games. Although the couple had been keeping their romance on the low, they apparently spent the festive season together. Pearl gave fans a glimpse of her man when she posted a Christmas snap of herself holding her 'mystery' dude's hand. A day later, a fan gushed over how sweet Pearl was to take a picture with him while she was having dinner with her "boyfriend" Serge. Then a  few hours later, Pearl was spotted with other wags at the NBA game between the Toronto Raptors and Miami Heat. After the game she was spotted partying it up with the likes of Gabrielle Union and others.  Sportsgossip.com also got footage of the crew at the game and afterparty.