The holiday started at Sea Point Pavilion pool this weekend for thousands of Capetonians, and TimesLIVE photographer Esa Alexander was there to catch some of the diving action. Sea Point is one of 17 Cape Town municipal pools that will open this summer. Another 18 remain closed due to the water shortage. Muizenberg pool is now filled with groundwater after drilling found a suitable source. “Initially, the plan was to draw salt water as an alternative source for the Muizenberg pool, but drilling for a well point resulted in finding good quality fresh water instead, which will also be used for irrigation,” said mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith. While the pool at Sea Point is filled with sea water, the other operational pools have each been fitted with two 10,000 litre tanks. Backwashed water is recycled into the pools from these tanks. Smith said the criteria used in deciding which pools to open this summer included accessibility, location in relation to transport routes and equal representation across all areas of the city. All open pools will have lifeguards on duty, as will the tidal pools at Camps Bay, Maiden’s Cove, Monwabisi, Sparks Bay, Harmony Park, Strandfontein and St James. Showers at swimming pools and beaches are still off limits. “We need our visitors to help us keep water usage to a minimum. Showers at all public amenities and ablutions will be switched off and waterless hand sanitisers will be provided at most public washrooms,” said Smith. Law enforcement officers patrolling beaches would focus on by-law enforcement and public safety. “We have an annual struggle and that struggle is alcohol. It is the common denominator in virtually all of our enforcement challenges over the festive season, but also for the rest of the year,” he said. “We have a zero-tolerance approach to drinking in public, but also anyone found behind the wheel of a vehicle while under the influence. There are responsible alternatives and I implore people to make use of them.” More than 300 lifeguards will be on duty at beaches, and the Identikidz project will operate at 14 beaches. “I urge caregivers to register their children as soon as they arrive at one of the participating beaches,” said mayoral committee member for community services Zahid Badroodien. “That way, we can ensure a quick reunion in the event that the child is separated from their family.” The project will run on December 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 25, 26, 29, 30 and 31, and on January 1 and 2, at the following beaches: Muizenberg, Fish Hoek, Strandfontein, Gordon’s Bay, Strand, Monwabisi, Harmony Park, Mnandi, Big Bay, Sea Point, Silverstroom, Camps Bay, Lagoon Beach and Melkbosstrand.