In 2018, games continued to evolve into a masterful storytelling medium. This is largely because gamers were looking for more than just "shoot that guy in the head, dude" - although thanks to the ever-increasing presence of various battle royale modes, there was more than enough of that too if you wanted it. We were looking for choice and a tactile, gameful representation of what it means to be human, and the games are delivering that in spades. Here is our roundup of the best - and the worst - of gaming this year. Red Dead Redemption (PS4, Xbox, Steam) Some may say it's overrated or boring but it's exactly this grinding slow pace that makes the game extraordinary. It's an extremely vast and rich representation of everyday life - including daily chores - of an outlaw, a species nearing the end of its lawless life in the changing world of 1899. WATCH | The game trailer for Red Dead Redemption Where the game truly shines - outside of its incredible visuals - is in the tiny interactions with people you have along the way, just like in life. Honourable mentions: God of War (PS4), Celeste ( Xbox, Nintendo Switch), Spiderman (PS4), and Assassin's Creed Odyssey (PS4, Xbox, Steam). Fallout 76 (PS4, Xbox, Steam) We were promised the spiritual sequel to Fallout: New Vegas - a personal favourite - instead we got a "fine" game, hampered by its bugs and not knowing what it wanted to be. You broke my heart, Bethesda. Semblance (Nintendo Switch, Steam) This is a category that continues to make leaps and bounds and one we should celebrate and be proud of. Semblance was a cracker in its own right but the fact that it was made in Joburg is all the better. We'll be keeping a closer eye on the local scene next year. WATCH | The game trailer for Semblance Nintendo Labo (Nintendo Switch) Who knew cardboard could be this fun? This insane new mindbending take on the consol was a definite breakthrough in the gaming world and we can't wait to see where this takes us next. Fortnite (PS4, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, Steam, iOS, Android) Like anyone had to guess? It's taken over your living room, your phones and your credit cards. It's smashed all expectations and has given birth to a brand-new gaming generation.