The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on Monday began counting ballots from a presidential election marked by delays and fears of violence and vote-rigging, straining hopes for its first-ever peaceful transfer of power. After a relatively bloodless vote, election officials embarked on the marathon task of counting and collating, their work scrutinised by opposition parties for any sign of fraud. Sunday's elections went ahead after two years of delays and sporadic clashes in the notoriously unstable country. But the influential Catholic church, through its national conference of bishops, declared the vote had been "relatively calm". Reported incidents included harassment of some election monitors and a clash in the restive eastern province of South Kivu that left four dead. Two telecoms operators, Global and Vodacom, said the government had ordered them to cut access to the Internet on Monday -- a move that opposition supporters said aimed at blocking social-media activism. The DRC has never had a peaceful transition of leader since it gained independence from Belgium in 1960. Worries of a new spiral into violence deepened in 2016 after President Joseph Kabila, in power since 2001, refused to quit when his two-term limit expired. Tension and suspicion were further stoked by repeated delays, a bloody crackdown on anti-Kabila protests and accusations that electronic voting machines would help to rig the result. But Kabila late Sunday congratulated the public for voting "in peace and dignity". Provisional results are due to be announced on January 6, with final results expected on January 15. The new president is set to be sworn in on January 18. From Kinshasa to Goma, 2,000 kilometres (1,250 miles) further east, polling stations already put up first results on Monday morning. In Kisangani, the country's third-largest city, observers hired by the political parties slept on the floor or on desks at a polling station to keep their eye on the vote count, an AFP reporter said. A monitoring mission set up by the Catholic church said some of its observers had been "molested and violated." On Sunday evening, violence erupted at a polling station in the Walungu area of South Kivu province after an electoral official was accused of trying to rig the vote in favour of Kabila's preferred successor, according to an opposition figure. The electoral official was killed along with a policeman and two civilians, said Vital Kamerhe, who has been campaigning for Felix Tshisekedi. Kabila's champion Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary and Tshisekedi, head of a veteran opposition party, UDPS, separately claimed victory. But the scant opinion polls that have been conducted made Martin Fayulu -- until recently a little-known legislator and former oil executive -- clear favourite. He garnered around 44 percent of voting intentions, followed by Tshisekedi with 24 percent and Shadary with 18 percent, said Jason Stearns of the Congo Research Group, based at the Center on International Cooperation at New York University. Roughly half of survey respondents, he added, said they would reject the result if Shadary -- a hardline former interior minister facing EU sanctions for a crackdown on protesters -- was declared winner. The vote for a new president took place alongside legislative and municipal polls. While turnout failed to reach 50 percent at some polling stations, many voters said they were exhilarated at taking part in the first elections after the nearly 18-year Kabila era. But there was also much evidence of organisational problems, including with the contested voting machines. The Catholic monitoring mission said that, as of early Monday, its observers had checked overall tallies of the vote in 4,161 polling stations. In 3,626 stations, the number of paper ballot sheets tallied with totals kept by electronic voting machines, the observer mission said -- a figure that by extrapolation suggests possible discrepancies in 535 bureaux. A country almost the size of continental western Europe which straddles central Africa, the DRC is rich in gold, uranium, copper, cobalt and other minerals. Little of that wealth trickles down to the poor. Poverty, corruption and government inertia are etched into the country's history, along with a reputation for violence. In the last 22 years, it has twice been a battleground for wars drawing in armies from central and southern Africa. That legacy endures in eastern DRC, where militias control swathes of territory and battle over resources, wantonly killing civilians. Insecurity and an ongoing Ebola epidemic in part of North Kivu province, and communal violence in Yumbi, in the southwest, prompted the authorities to postpone the elections there until March. Around 1.25 million people in a national electoral roll of around 40 million voters are affected. Despite this, elections in the rest of the country went ahead.