Our Perfect Wedding is one TV show that is almost always guaranteed to trend, but some episodes are more memorable than others. The show celebrates love and marriage, as couples take viewers along for the ride as they prepare to spend a lifetime together. Sometimes people are more interested in the couples’ back stories than they are in the union. These are five weddings that viewers are sure to remember for a long time. Venita and Jordan This elderly couple gave social media the feels when they renewed their wedding vows after being happily married for 63 years. The pair met around 1950, after which Jordan had to write three love letters before Venita paid him any attention. Tweeps were all ears when the lovebirds dished out their tips for relationship success. Pretty and Kenny Sometimes it’s not the love story that captivates viewers, it’s the bride’s make-up. Several make-up artists have been trolled for not putting their best foot forward on the big day. In September, Pretty said she had Googled her wedding wish list and social media immediately concluded that relying on the internet for bridal make-up tips had perhaps not been the bride’s best move. Pretty changed her eyebrows throughout the show and, each time, many people thought the makoti could have done better. Pearl and Katlego Interracial couple Pearl and Katlego got the thumbs up from an audience in a country where race relations are still the subject of heated discussions. People remarked that the couple represented the kind of change South Africa desperately needed. The groom’s mother was especially happy because she had always wanted a white daughter-in-law. Silindile and Sibusiso Silindile and Sibusiso were set on making their wedding celebration an unforgettable day of fun and games, and that’s exactly how it turned out. The programme included games that guests participated in and Twitter loved the action. However, the same couldn’t be said for the make-up on the day. Mellisha and Ryan The Indian couple melted the hearts of viewers when they chose a Zulu theme for their nuptials. Mellisha looked radiant in a red dress with traditional Zulu bead accessories, while Ryan was equally dashing in red pants and a black coat lined with animal skin. Twitter dubbed the fusion of Indian and Zulu cultures the “Zu-ndia” tradition.