A four-day week sounds too good to be true, but companies around the world that have cut their work week have found that it leads to higher productivity, more motivated staff and less burnout. "It is much healthier and we do a better job if we're not working crazy hours," said Jan Schulz-Hofen, founder of Berlin-based project management software company Planio, who introduced a four-day week to the company's 10-member staff earlier this year. In New Zealand, insurance company Perpetual Guardian reported a fall in stress and a jump in staff engagement after it tested a 32-hour week earlier this year. Even in Japan, the government is encouraging companies to allow Monday mornings off, although other schemes in the workaholic country to persuade employees to take it easy have had little effect. Britain's Trades Union Congress (TUC) is pushing for the whole country to move to a four-day week by the end of the century, a drive supported by the opposition Labour party. The TUC argues that a shorter week is a way for workers to share in the wealth generated by new technologies like machine learning and robotics, just as they won the right to the weekend off during the industrial revolution. "It would reduce the stress of juggling working and family life and could improve gender equality. Companies that have already tried it say it's better for productivity and staff wellbeing," said TUC economic head Kate Bell. Overworked Lucie Greene, trends expert at consultancy J. Walter Thompson, said there was a growing backlash against overwork, underlined by a wave of criticism after Tesla boss Elon Musk tweeted that "nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week." "People are starting to take a step back from the 24-hour digital life we have now and realise the mental health issues from being constantly connected to work," Greene said. A recent survey of 3,000 employees in eight countries including the US, Britain and Germany found that nearly half thought they could easily finish their tasks in five hours a day if they did not have interruptions, but many are exceeding 40 hours a week anyway - with the US leading the way, where 49% said they worked overtime. "There has been work creep. Because you always have the technology, you are always working, so people are getting burned out," said Dan Schawbel, director of executive development firm Future Workplace, which conducted the survey. Schulz-Hofen, a 36-year-old software engineer, tested the four-day week on himself after realising he needed to slow down following a decade of intense work launching Planio, whose tools allowed him to track his time in detail. "I didn't get less work done in four days than in five because in five days, you think you have more time, you take longer, you allow yourself to have more interruptions, you have your coffee a bit longer or chat with colleagues," Schulz-Hofen said. "I realised with four days, I have to be quick, I have to be focused if I want to have my free Friday." Schulz-Hofen and his team discussed various options before settling on everybody working Monday to Thursday. They rejected the idea of flexible hours because it adds administrative complexity, and were against a five-day week with shorter hours as it is too easy for overwork to creep back in. Clients who call on a Friday hear a recorded message explaining why nobody is at the office. "We got an unexpected reaction from customers. Most of our clients did not complain. They were just jealous," Schulz-Hofen said. Grey New York, an ad agency owned by WPP, launched a program in April to allow staff to work a four-day week for 85% of their full-time salary. Schawbel expects the idea to catch on in more companies and countries, but probably not his own: "I think America will be the last country to give us Monday mornings off because we're so used to this way of working." Reuters