The DA has criticised Gauteng premier David Makhura for not acting decisively against errant mayors and municipal officials in the province, scoring him 4 out of 10 in the party's annual cabinet scorecard. Speaking at a media briefing on Monday, the DA's premier candidate Solly Msimanga said Makhura had presided over 124,000 job losses during the past financial year. "Since 2014, Makhura has time and time again insisted – when it is strategically convenient - that e-tolls must go. He has marched. He established a commission. He has said a great many things, but the most important thing that he has not said is to both the ministers of transport and finance: 'Do not renew the collection contract when it comes to an end.'" said Msimanga. "If he were seriously on the side of the people, he would have used his so-called conviction to stand up to what is evidently wrong. "Similarly, under his watch, he has lacked the conviction to act against errant mayors and officials that have run the municipalities of Emfuleni, Merafong and West Rand District into the ground," continued Msimanga. "These municipalities stand testament to failing ANC governance … As at the end of the 2017/18 financial year, Makhura presided over 124,000 more job losses compared to the end of the previous financial year. At the end of the financial year, Gauteng suffered the most job losses in South Africa." Msimanga said Gauteng suffered from a serious backlog in housing, healthcare and schools. "We need a better, professionalised police force that will make use of intelligence to bring down the rate of crime in this province. We need fewer talk shops and more action. "Under the ANC's watch, they have allowed sewage from the Emfuleni Local Municipality to flow into the Vaal River, despite being warned that it will have a huge impact on water supply in Gauteng. The raw sewage is causing severe water pollution. The drinking water is now being used to flush pollution out of the Vaal River system. As a result, we are left with a water shortage and an impending water crisis in this province." According to the DA, the best-performing MEC in the province is Panyaza Lesufi, who presides over the education portfolio. The DA said Lesufi "has once again endeared himself as the top performer in the provincial government. He has a clear vision of where his department is headed and has made a tremendous effort to modernise education in Gauteng, as well as to ensure that learners receive quality education. His vision for schools of specialisation is a step in the right direction, as is his department’s partnerships with the private sector." Lesufi was given 7.5 out of 10 by the DA. Among the worst-performing MECs, according to the DA, is health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa, who was given 1 out of 10 by the DA. "Her general failure is illustrated by the auditor-general's report for 2017/18, which rebukes the department for lack of controls, unreliable information and racking up irregular expenditure of R1.7-billion and fruitless and wasteful expenditure of R38-million," said the party.