We don't know how or why Themba Ndaba hasn't received every acting award that exists for nailing that greatest malume of all time on The Queen. Either way,  he's most definitely won all of us over! In 2018, Malume Brutus Khoza aka Mkhathini, played by Themba Ndaba made TV great. On bad days, he made us shed tears of laughter, when he got angry we rallied behind him (even though he's hardly ever angry over relevant things) and when he died, we all really died too (so thank God he woke up). In all honesty, it is hard to imagine a world without our fave uncle... It was the worst news we could have heard that week. Even load shedding couldn't touch the despair of learning that Brutus apparently died in a boat explosion on the soapie. The Khoza family had been searching high and low for any sign of Mzansi's favourite TV malume and Shaka even wanted to consult a sangoma in his quest to find his uncle. But dololo... Look. That was a sad night in Mzansi. This was us after that episode... Here are some of the other great Brutus moments. There is just no "conforming" with babomncane Brutus, guys. Like, no matter how well we know his ungovernable tendencies, he keeps pushing the bar. And that particular episode of The Queen he went remixed Kamina's name to Khalamina. Malume was discussing Kea when suddenly the fam got concerned because she had not yet checked-in on the socials. They suggested that they could find out if she was missing by checking out her social pages. Brutus killed the game when he asked if she didn't have Twittergram. Just when you thought The Queen's Brutus will lose points with viewers, he goes and declares alcohol a life saver and the one thing that can fix everything under the sun. Brutus was poisoned and then taken to hospital, where they found that the poison didn't really do major damage. The doctor also mentioned that the amount of alcohol in Brutus' system may have decreased the effect of the poison. So Brutus has now concluded that it was alcohol that saved his life from the full effects of the poison he allegedly ingested. The Queen's Shaka was so gatvol with relationships that he was ready to just throw in the towel and fall for any girl he can get. The heartbroken stud, played by Sthembiso "SK" Khoza, has had no luck in the love department and told his uncle Brutus that he had decided to head to the "butchery" to go find women who "know how to keep a man happy." This scene felt like a comedy show even...