The ANC has officially recalled President Jacob Zuma despite his pleas for an extended stay at the Union Buildings. In a press conference at Luthuli House on Tuesday, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule confirmed that the party's officials had communicated its national executive committee's (NEC) decision to the president. "The NEC received a report from the national officials about the engagements with the president. The NEC noted that the officials had agreed with him in principle to resign. The president proposed he be given a period of three to six months," Magashule said. However, the NEC noted that South Africa was experiencing a period of uncertainty and anxiety due to this issue, which could "erode the renewed hope and confidence among South Africans since the 54th national conference of the ANC", it said in a statement. The NEC then once again engaged Zuma on the need to resolve the matter speedily, but he would not agree to a shorter time frame. This led to the decision to recall the president. "The decision by the NEC to recall its deployee was taken only after exhaustive discussion on the impact such a recall would have on the country, the ANC and the functioning of government," said Magashule. He said the party wanted ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the country's top job. "The decision of the NEC provides certainty to the people of South Africa at a time when the economic and social challenges facing the country require urgent and resolute response by all sections of society," the committee added in its statement. TimesLIVE reported earlier on Tuesday that Magashule and his deputy Jessie Duarte were tasked by the party to deliver a letter to Zuma, informing him of the recall. The NEC decided to recall Zuma after he refused to resign following a marathon discussion between him and the ANC's top brass. His imminent recall has also hindered the National Assembly's programming. The state of the nation address, which would have been held on Thursday last week, had to be postponed. This led to the Economic Freedom Fighters requesting National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to bring forward its vote on a motion of no confidence. Meanwhile, ANC MPs have been called to an urgent caucus meeting in Parliament on Wednesday. "In light of that‚ the chief whip has requested that the meeting of the chief whips' forum [comprising chief whips of opposition parties] that normally meets on Wednesday at 10am be shifted to 8am tomorrow morning," said Nonceba Mhlauli‚ a spokesperson for the office of ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu.