While home is arguably the best place to hang up your hat after a busy day, this is certainly not the case when it comes to hanging a hammock. The latest global leisure trend, called hammocking, is the act of setting up your hammock anywhere in the world with a friend or two and simply hanging out, napping, relaxing and swinging together. Here are our top picks of the world’s most spectacular spots to hammock. You may want to consider investing in a portable, lightweight camping hammock for your next adventure. Ang Thong National Park, Thailand Welcome to paradiseWhite sandy beaches meet rainforest within this group of 42 small, tropical islands to explore to find your perfect hammock-hanging spot. This is one of those destinations that you want to travel through over a couple of days because in addition to relaxing in your hammock, you can also snorkel among the coral reefs, swim and sunbathe in your own pristine bay, or do a spot of birdwatching in the lush, green rainforest. Miller’s Point Resort, Simon’s Town, South Africa Beach hammocking at its bestMiller’s Point Resort is 5km south of Simon’s Town, as you follow the M4 towards Cape Point. Along one of the most stunning stretches of local coastline, the protected northern side of the point is the perfect spot to hang a hammock and soak in the magnificent views. The spectacular setting is created by the dramatic convergence of land and sea. Here, a coastal terrace leads up to the steep escarpment, slopes and ridges of the Swartklip Mountains. Impressively large boulders line the shoreline, with secluded nooks and sheltered bays providing the ideal place to kick back and unwind in perfect solitude. Fall Creek Falls, Tennessee, US Every inch a place to park your hammockMagnificent is the only way to describe Tennessee’s largest and most visited state park. Encompassing more than 10,521 hectares, the park is dotted with gorges, cascades, waterfalls, streams and huge canopied areas of towering hardwood trees, where you can set up a hammock and enjoy the hum of the light breeze and the soothing sound of trickling water. Cairngorms National Park, Scotland, UK Hammocking havenSet in the heart of the Scottish Highlands, the Cairngorms is a hammocking haven. It offers remote and rugged high mountains; aromatic heather moorlands and harsh peatlands; magnificent forests, quaint farms and crofts; and winding wetlands, rivers and floodplains – a virtual kaleidoscope of scenic hammocking spots. The park is also home to some of the most unusual and endangered animal species in the UK. Îles Aux Cerfs, Mauritius A picture-postcard hammocking experienceÎles Aux Cerfs, a large outer isle of Mauritius, is located off the east coast of the main island. Picture turquoise waters of varying shades, endless powdery white sandy beaches, palm trees and a pristine lagoon. The magnificent surrounds provide any number of idyllic hammocking spots. Laze away the afternoon and watch the sunset over the horizon – a great way to end a busy, fun, sun-filled day of exploring. Tankwa Karoo National Park, Sutherland, South Africa A vast silent space to hang your hammockThis park lies about 70km west of Sutherland near the border of the Northern and Western Cape, in one of the most arid regions of South Africa – also the only arid region in the world to be recognised as a biodiversity hotspot. Stark as it is beautiful, it is a breathtaking spot to go hammocking. It is particularly scenic when it’s covered with a blanket of wild flowers in spring or by snow in winter. Due to its remote location, the pure air and clear night skies make it the perfect place to do some star-gazing. Joshua Tree National Park, California, US A star-filled hammocking delightThis unique national park is as mesmerising as it is eerie. It comprises two distinct desert ecosystems, the Mojave and the Colorado, and so contains a unique and fascinating array of plants and animals. This vast stretch of desert has been sculpted by centuries of strong winds and rain and contains unusual geological features. The best time to engage in some hammock time is at night when the endless dark skies reveal vast clusters of twinkling stars. This article was paid for by Flight Centre.