A police officer has described the trauma that he and other officers experienced when they discovered remains believed to be those of Gabisile Shabani‚ a 13-year-old albino girl who was murdered‚ allegedly as part of a muti ritual. The premises in Emalahleni in Mpumalanga belonged to a traditional healer‚ who was arrested last week. “The dog was first put in there‚ but it came out with nothing‚” said the officer‚ who asked not to be named. “The dog seemed weak and disorientated as it came out of the room. The dog handler asked [the traditional healer] what he had done to his dog and he said there was strong muti in there‚” the officer said. Inside the room‚ police officers found muti‚ buckets and bags with various substances‚ and what appeared to be body parts. “He was telling us what was in each thing. He was speaking like a normal person‚ like you and I. It was really disturbing‚” said the officer. Gabisile’s beheaded body was found in a shallow grave in Cullinan near Pretoria last week. This was three weeks after she and her 15-month-old nephew‚ Nkosikhona Ngwenya‚ were taken at gunpoint in the middle of the night by three men who broke into their home in Hlalanikahle. It was alleged that the gunmen had mistaken Nkosikhona for another toddler in the house‚ who also has albinism. The badly decomposed body of the little toddler was recovered on the same day Gabisile’s body was found. He had been thrown into a swamp along the N4. The officer said he was disturbed to learn from pathologists conducting the post-mortem how Gabisile’s body had been mutilated. Meanwhile‚ two other people have also been arrested in connection with the incident‚ said the officer. They were arrested in Swaziland and are yet to be brought back to South Africa. The 32-year-old traditional healer remains in police custody. He appeared in the Witbank Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday as a group of residents gathered outside the court to protest against his release. The father of four will return to court on March 6‚ when his formal bail application is expected to continue.