Just because Janu-worry is a thing of the past doesn’t mean you should go out every night and ruin your bank balance all over again. Instead, stay home and get stuck into some of the best drama series now on TV. From The Handmaid’s Tale (winner of two Golden Globes this year, including best drama series) to American Crime, here are 11 excellent series to stream on Showmax this February. Rated 8.6/10 on IMDb.com Once, June had a husband, a job and a life. Now she’s Offred, enslaved as a walking womb in a regime where the only thing rarer than pregnancy is escape. Watch now » Rated 7.8/10 on IMDb.com A simple crime can cause worlds to collide in this brilliant, award-winning crime drama anthology, where good intentions can be as dangerous as bad acts. Watch now » Rated 7.2/10 on IMDb.com Killjoys hunt dangerous criminals in the worst parts of space in this action-packed series. No job is too tough or dangerous, not with these three bounty hunters on the job. Watch now » Rated 7.1/10 on IMDb.com Scandal, drama, feuds and romance power the halls of an illustrious fashion house as two brothers try to raise it from the ashes. But can they avoid destroying each other? Watch now » Rated 7.3/10 on IMDb.com Evie’s life is super-ordered – and going nowhere. Then she meets the hunky Xavier, who might be perfect … except he thinks the world will end in a few months. Watch now » Rated 7.3/10 on IMDb.com Ivy escapes from a house 13 years after being abducted. Soon she is reunited with her family, but not everything is what it seems in this mystery-laden drama. Watch now » Rated 7.6/10 on IMDb.com Emily was a geek in school, so she hoped her surgery career would be different. But that might have been too much to ask for in this cute romantic drama. Watch now » Rated 7.2/10 on IMDb.com An award-winning series about an addict who makes a promise to turn his life around and help other addicts – even if it takes extreme tactics to save them. Watch now » Rated 6.7/10 on IMDb.com Residents wake up to find their town covered by a transparent dome. Can they escape before they destroy each other? Based on the Stephen King novel. Watch now » Rated 7.6/10 on IMDb.com Enjoy this long-running and award-winning drama about the lives and loves of a group of women in Los Angeles, with all the hookups, breakups and everything in between. Watch now » Rated 8.1/10 on IMDb.com When you’re deep undercover in the middle of a terrorist cell planning an attack on homegrown soil, who can you trust? Don’t miss this intense drama series. Watch now » This article was paid for by Showmax.