Kaizer Chiefs defender Teenage Hadebe is to rest his ankle in the coming weeks after pulling out of Zimbabwe’s provisional squad for the COSAFA Cup tournament that gets under way in Polokwane this weekend. Hadebe would likely have been a key part of coach Sunday Chidzambwa’s backline‚ but Chiefs will not allow him to be risked in the regional competition after he missed the final five games of the season with the ankle problem. “It’s an honour to represent my country and I am glad for the call-up. Unfortunately I had an ankle problem‚ so the club [Chiefs] decided to rest me‚” Hadebe told reporters. “I didn’t even play for the last five games of the season and I am so disappointed at having to miss out on the COSAFA Cup. "I just want to wish the guys all the best of luck. “It’s really sad because I wanted to be part of the group and defend our title and I know we can. "This COSAFA Cup is also important in that it is helping us prepare for the AFCON qualifiers [in September] and I think we have a very strong squad. Hadebe adds that he is now focussing on being fit for the new season‚ especially with Chiefs set to compete in the 2019 African Confederation Cup that will begin in November. “I am happy we finished third with Chiefs and we will get a chance to play in Africa which will be a good experience.” Defending COSAFA Cup champions Zimbabwe have also been rocked by two more withdrawals‚ Bloemfontein Celtic defender Ronald Pfumbidzai‚ who has a shoulder problem‚ and midfielder Marvelous Nakamba of Belgian champions Club Brugge‚ who has a knee ligament injury. Chidzambwa is hoping that another Belgian-based star‚ former Chiefs forward Knowledge Musona‚ will spearhead the attack for the side in Polokwane. The COSAFA Cup first round starts on Sunday‚ with Zimbabwe to enter the competition in the quarterfinal stage against the winner of Group B on June 3. South Africa will make their bow a day earlier when they tackle the winner of Group A that contains Madagascar‚ Mozambique‚ Comoros and Seychelles.