Embattled South African Football Association president Danny Jordaan was this week caught offside as evidence emerged that he allegedly used “falsified and fraudulent documentation” to open a case of defamation against Premier Soccer League boss Irvin Khoza. The two soccer heavyweights are fighting over the total control of South African soccer. Jordaan opened a case of defamation, criminal collusion and conspiracy at Sandton police station last Friday accusing Khoza, his rape accuser, Jennifer Ferguson, and former PSL manager Ace Ncobo of conspiring to defame him. He alleges that Khoza, the Orlando Pirates chairman, paid for Ferguson’s flight to South Africa, as well as her accommodation, last month through a third party. Ferguson, a former ANC MP and musician, lives in Sweden. Shortly after Jordaan opened the case last week, his team circulated what they purported to be an e-mail from Khoza to travel agent, Fli-Afrika, to pay for Ferguson’s flight and accommodation. But this week, Ferguson responding to Sunday Times questions sent to her last week, produced evidence that Khoza had nothing to do with her travel to South Africa. The documents show that a Mpumalanga-based non-governmental organisation, The Forgotten Angle Theatre Company, paid for her tickets directly to a Sweden travel agent, Big Travel. Ferguson also revealed the anonymous donors for her tickets are her close friends, Toni Jooste and Thys Botha, who also offered her “free accommodation in Johannesburg and Cape Town”. She said the two “are close personal friends of over 25 years”. “Both are highly respected professionals in their respective fields of social justice, activism and philanthropic work, and have always kept their donation anonymous.” Ferguson said Jordaan had used “clumsily falsified and fraudulent documentation” on his “slanderous attack and malicious prosecution” on her. “May truth and justice prevail,” Ferguson said. She added that Khoza had nothing to do with her trip to South Africa and the two don’t know each other. Ferguson came to South Africa last month for a concert and also opened a case of rape against Jordaan at Parkview police station in Johannesburg. The case was transferred to Port Elizabeth, where the rape allegedly took place in a  hotel room 25 years ago. Jordaan’s lawyer, Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi, yesterday said they were “surprised as to the new version of who sponsored of her [Ferguson’s] trip”. “We will, however, ask the SAPS to determine — as part of their investigation — the authenticity of the information that is only produced now, when question[s] [were asked] ...  by journalists. We suggest that all such documents be handed over to the police ... “Furthermore ...  Jordaan’s charges are not based on ...  Ferguson’s version, nor any e-mails, but rather the case is much broader than that. We call on all parties to abide by the legal processes ...  underway in order for the truth to be determined,” said Mohlala-Mulaudzi. Khoza called a press conference on Wednesday and said Jordaan’s claims against him were “bizarre and absurd”. “It is important to point out a tactic ... Jordaan uses against his perceived enemies. He attacks people in public and apologises behind closed doors,” Khoza said. Khoza added that he has no connection to Ferguson. “I do not know ... Jennifer Ferguson. I have never met her, spoken to her and I have never had any form of contact with her. “I have never had contact with anyone associated with ...  Ferguson, or sent anyone to talk to ...  Jennifer Ferguson  — and I have never been approached by anyone associated with her,” Khoza said. Jordaan failed to respond to Sunday Times sent to him about these revelations.