Whether you love the chance to prove just how smart you are, or just enjoy getting a bit competitive with your friends, there’s no denying that pub quizzes are great fun. Johannesburg is filled with spots where you can grab a drink while testing your general knowledge. Here are some of our favourites: Perhaps Joburg’s best-known quiz company, Quizwizz Productions puts on bi-weekly quiz nights across the city. Started a decade ago, Quizwizz is known for everything from speed quizzes to anagram rounds, general trivia and theme-specific nights hosted by quizmaster Larry Benjamin. He also carries the distinguished accolade of being the author of South Africa’s first quiz book, The Sunday Times Big Pub Quiz Book. Catch Quizwizz every second Tuesday at The Jolly Roger in Parkhurst and Jeppe Quondam Sports Club in Bedfordview; every second Wednesday at Full Stop Cafe in Parktown North and The Brazen Head in Sandton; and at Little Italy in Glenanda and Barrels and Bottles in Cramerview Village Centre every second Thursday. It’s also hard to discuss a Joburg-based quiz without thinking of the Quiz Nights SA team. The quizzes are fun, interactive and challenging. There’s a quiz league, so you can play throughout the year for a chance to win big. Geared more for weekly quizzes, the great choice of venues also means that you can always grab a delicious bite to eat while you think. Enjoy a quiz every Monday at Schwabinger Stuben in Randburg and Zoo Lake Bowls Club in Parkview; on Tuesdays at The Colony Arms in Craighall, El Jalapeno in Linden; on Wednesdays at Beerhouse in Centurion, Copperlake Brewing Co in Broadacres and Knead in Sandton; and on Thursdays at Craft Beer Library in Linden and Picolinos in Fourways. Interested in a quiz night wild card? One of the most popular events is the quarterly quiz at The Rand Club. Taking place just four times a year, this night of trivia is hosted by quizmaster Dylan Paton, who spends months putting together the most difficult questions to create a true challenge of the minds. Taking place in the club itself, and with entrance including a delicious three-course meal, it’s the ultimate pub quiz experience. This article was originally published in the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za