The Gauteng human settlements department is to transfer ownership of some government-owned flats to tenants who have been living in them for a number of years. This was announced by Gauteng MEC for human settlements Uhuru Moiloa on Thursday after meeting representatives from Eldorado Park and other communities in Johannesburg. The communities met Moiloa on Thursday but some walked out of the meeting‚ accusing him of giving them reports they had had from his predecessor‚ Paul Mashatile. Moiloa admitted that promises that had been made to residents had not been fulfilled. However‚ these promises‚ he said‚ were now part of the R5.7-billion new budget allocated to his department. He announced that in Eldorado Park there would be a transfer of government-owned flats to residents who had been living in them for a very long time. In Eldorado Park extensions 6 and 7‚ 266 of the 298 units have been registered for transfer. “The critical point of transfer involves the audit and verification of beneficiaries who were leasing these properties from government to enable transfer to legitimate beneficiaries. The structural integrity of the affected units will be assessed and processed accordingly. This process will also be applied to address concerns in Westbury‚ Riverlea‚ Claremont‚ Bosmont‚ Sophiatown and Vredepark‚” Moiloa said. Moiloa said he had instructed all role players and urged the City of Johannesburg to fast-track the approval and planning process of the Southern Farms mega project to ensure that development of housing units and serviced stands could begin in the 2019/20 financial year. The project is expected to yield 38‚000 housing units‚ including serviced stands which will enable people to build using approved house plans over a multi-year period. The Southern Farms project will benefit areas such as Diepkloof‚ Freedom Park‚ Eldorado Park and Naturena. Residents of Eldorado Park‚ Freedom Park and surrounding areas blocked roads with burning tyres and rubble on Wednesday in a protest against poor service delivery. The protesters demanded housing‚ land‚ electricity and jobs‚ which they said government had promised them in 2017. In 2017‚ then human settlements minister Lindiwe Sisulu‚ Mashatile and Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba held a meeting with representatives of the community following weeks of violent protests. A steering committee was set up to represent the communities that had brought complaints to government. Some of the representatives who met with Moiloa at the Gauteng Gambling Board offices in Bramley are part of that committee. After their walkout on Thursday‚ they told journalists that they wanted the MEC to come and speak directly to the residents on May 12 at a gathering that would be held in the Eldorado Park Stadium. Moiloa has agreed to attend this gathering and promised to bring Johannesburg MMC of housing Mzobanzi Ntuli and mayor Herman Mashaba with him. He also committed himself to meet with residents of Lawley‚ Ennerdale and Finetown this weekend.