Equal Education‚ a well-known organisation geared at improving education in South Africa‚ has been ordered to stop operations at Western Cape schools due to accusations of sexual misconduct. On Friday the organisation announced that its members are "deeply distressed" by the allegations of sexual harassment against three top managers. All three have tendered their resignation in the last month. In response‚ on Monday‚ Western Cape education MEC Debbie Schäfer expressed her concern saying that Equal Education works in schools throughout the province. She said that while allegations were made by members of the organisation‚ it is not clear if children are involved. And‚ should these allegations be true‚ "this is hardly the type of person we need working in our schools". "I have therefore written to Equal Education requesting that they furnish me with the details regarding every interview or engagement conducted by [the men] so far this year with any female learner in the Western Cape. I have requested the names of learners‚ the school that these learners attend‚ the date of the interviews and who was present during the interviews. I require this information by this Friday‚" said Schäfer. "I have also demanded an undertaking by 5pm tomorrow‚ Tuesday‚ that they will cease operations in Western Cape schools until such time as we have had an opportunity to meet with them and discuss the way forward. Should we not receive such undertaking‚ we shall instruct our schools not to allow anybody from Equal Education‚ and who is not a learner at the school‚ onto school premises." She has also instructed the province's Chief Director for Districts to start investigating what measures are taken by NGOs working at schools to vet their members. Meanwhile the organisation had acted "swiftly" to address the allegations. "This has been an incredibly difficult period for Equal Education. We know that the trust and confidence which our supporters have placed in us‚ and the reputation which we have built over 10 years of struggle‚ has been damaged by what has transpired. However‚ we are committed to confronting these difficult times in our movement’s history with honesty and with integrity‚" the statement read. "We recognise this as an important moment of reckoning with class‚ race and gender power imbalances - issues that permeate our society as a whole. We care deeply about our core mission - the struggle for access to quality education for all - and we are determined to deal with these issues decisively." Schäfer said sexual abuse against young female learners is prevalent in communities and Equal Education has highlighted this scourge. Therefore it is "distressing" that such allegations have been levelled at high-ranking members of the organisation. She also noted allegations that one of the men allegedly offered a "job for sex" to a volunteer at the organisation. Equal Education has run several successful campaigns including scholar transport‚ school infrastructure‚ safety and sanitation at schools. It has also funded many court matters including the Rivonia Primary School case‚ on who has the power to establish capacity at government schools.