The motive behind the brazen shooting of a female jogger in Marlboro Gardens, Johannesburg remains unclear. Neighbours told TimesLIVE that they believed the killing was linked to an alleged property dispute. The woman was said to have been involved in a lengthy row about the ownership of the house. Captain Mohlaume Mamabolo however, maintained that the motive for the attack was unknown‚ adding that it was a subject for investigation. Two round chalk markings, where police discovered the bullet casings, remained visible on Wednesday despite being driven over numerous times by drivers’ license hopefuls who use the grounds on a daily basis for their practice. A few steps from the marks near a gravel pathway were some light stains‚ believed to be blood. “This is where she fell and died‚” one driving instructor told TimesLIVE as a learner truck driver pulled her vehicle away from the markings. He said the deceased woman was a regular in the area and would at times come to the testing grounds twice a day for her jog – in the morning and evenings. “The incident happened just after 6am‚” said the instructor on Tuesday's events. “We hear that a guy came from behind‚ approached the woman‚ grabbed her by the top and shot her twice at close range‚” said the instructor‚ who declined to give his name. The brazen shooting is alleged to have happened while the woman was in the company of another jogger. The alleged gunman was reported to have run across the tar road and into the informal settlement just a few metres away. The instructor said when he arrived on the scene around 6:30am‚ the woman’s body was still there. “She was here until around 10am‚” he said. The woman’s home was barely a kilometer from the place where she was shot. The gates to the blue house‚ which has a tyre placed on its roof and a vehicle parked and covered with a cloth‚ were closed on Wednesday afternoon. There seemed to be no activity inside the yard nor in the shack-like structure perched near the gate. There have been no arrests in the case.