Former YoTV presenter Lumko Johnson is devastated by the death of his close friend Akhumzi Jezile and has shared three moments he will never forget from the star's life. Akhumzi died in a car crash last weekend along with actor Thobani Mseleni, Siyasanga Kobese and two others. The head-on collision just outside of Queenstown in the Eastern Cape on Saturday killed all passengers in the car. While his death has been mourned by thousands across the country, his close friends say they still feel like it is a bad prank gone wrong. "If all of this is a f**cking prank, Akhumzi. I really hate you," Lumko wrote in one of his tribute messages to the star on social media. At the memorial service for Akhumzi, held at Rhema Bible Church in Johannesburg on Thursday, friends and family paid glowing tribute to the producer and presenter. Among the memories of him were stories of his incredible humour. Taking to Instagram ahead of the memorial, Lumko joked that Akhumzi was an "such an idiot with his mouth" and recounted three memories of this that he will never forget. "We agreed to book a veteran actress for a TV interview to speak on a Heritage Day special. Production called to get the legend's address so we could send a crew to film her at home, she back tracked on the interview asking for upfront payment. "Akhumzi had to break it to her that it wasn’t a paying interview. Upon hanging up the phone from speaking to her, he whispered to me, “With all due respect, uyanya lo mama.” "In the last minute I was roped into a review meeting with channel. I was dressed in what I thought was pretty chic in chino’s and a see through mesh top. "Akhumzi, walked into the elevator with some channel heads and introduced me as: 'This is Lumko, he’s really good at his job, nevermind the nipple peeping through this lingerie he’s wearing at work.' I wanted to die! "I was driving once with my mom on a Friday evening, Akhumzi called to remind me that my call time for the next day had changed. At the end of the conversation he shouted: 'Bye m*fza, give your bum a break this weekend, I’m sure it’s so tired.' He was on speaker!" Akhumzi was laid to rest yesterday at Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg.