A family who believe their daughter was murdered by her ex-boyfriend hope the same fate suffered by Karabo Mokoena’s killer‚ Sandile Mantsoe‚ will befall the suspect in their case. “We were happy with the outcome in Karabo’s case. It has set a precedent and it will send a clear message to others that they cannot simply get away with murder‚” said Musa Phangela‚ whose niece Nhlanhla‚ was found butchered to death in a veld in Soweto last year. Mantsoe‚ 28‚ was last week found guilty and sentenced to 30 years’ imprisonment for killing his 22-year-old lover‚ Mokoena. Her charred remains were found in a ditch in Lyndhurst in April 2017. Mantsoe will also serve time for destroying Mokoena’s remains. Nhlanhla Phangela died after suffering 27 stab wounds. She was stabbed twice in the heart‚ in the neck‚ belly button and 22 times in her back. Her uncle said she had last been seen heading to her ex-boyfriend’s home to collect her charger and jacket after the break-up. “Her body was found next to the water tower between Chiawelo and Phiri [Soweto]. When I went there‚ the body was moved. The place was full of blood‚” Phangela had told TimesLIVE last year. He said it had been a “draining experience” to head to court each time. Proceedings resume again at the Protea Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. “Tonight [Monday] we will be having a prayer at our home in Rockville‚ Soweto‚ with all the neighbours and community members‚” Phangela said. “Things must just unfold‚” he said. They were expecting the suspect‚ Nkululeko Khubeka‚ to take to the stand this week. Phangela said they were aware that just like Mantsoe‚ Khubeka could choose not to take to the stand. “All we want is for him to tell the truth‚ to tell the truth as it is‚” he said. Phangela’s confidence was further reassured by the fact that Michael Hlatshwayo‚ who was one of the prosecutors in Mokoena’s case‚ was prosecuting their case too. “I am very confident in the advocate that we have and we will just have to trust the justice system‚” Phangela said.