Even after having been in the industry for over 15 years, people only know about Noluthando Meje's characters on screen.  From Home Affairs' Maki straight to Isidingo's Zuki, she's got loyal fans. But the woman behind the character's remains a mystery and plans on keeping it that way. In an interview with TshisaLIVE, Nollynolz, as she calls herself on social media, explained what has fuelled her decision to be a "friendly mystery" in an industry where many are open books. "The decision that I made was that I want to be known in a specific way. I don't think and I don't feel that that means being seen at every event or red carpet. I'm an actress but I am also an individual who is very private person." The actress has won the hearts of many people in Mzansi through her efforts to win Idols SA and later her portrayal of their fave characters in Mzansi stories. She said that she valued having the element of surprise in her daily personal encounters. "I don't give a lot to the outside world. It's very simple, I only give myself to the people close to me. That is just a choice I made because I also want to leave that element of surprise. So when people meet me, then they can be like 'oh kanti you are like this?'" She hopes her role in the upcoming film Farewell Ella Bella will cement her place in the hearts of many. Farewell Ella Bella tells the story of a disillusioned waitress, whose father’s death sparks the determination to leave behind her stagnant life. "So I play a young woman called Khanyisa, who they (Ella and her godfather) meet along the journey as they go bury her father. She's a very interesting character and brings some light and some drama into the whole journey. But she's definitely memorable." Noluthando said the film also reminded her of the fact that as awful as death is, it is often the big event that leads one to re-evaluate life. She said in her reflection of her life she's realised that it is easy to always want to ask why and just hold on to pain as opposed to letting it go. The actress said people would love the infectious character she plays in the film.