The baby of Nonkanyiso Gabela‚ one of five people accused of kidnapping a 13-month-old Alberton baby‚ will spend some time with her mother in a Johannesburg prison while the case goes through the system. Gabela appeared in court on Monday with her baby‚ who is just a few months old. The baby will join 32 other babies at two facilities in Gauteng that are dedicated to offenders with babies. Gabela informed the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court‚ where she appeared with four other co-accused on Monday‚ that she did not have anyone else to take care of her baby. The case returns to court next Tuesday. Police arrested Gabela on Friday in a backroom in Windmill Park‚ where she had allegedly lived with her baby and the kidnapped 13-month-old Eden Laird. The Department of Correctional Services said some mothers were incarcerated while pregnant or while their babies were very young. “Unfortunately‚ the incarcerated mothers often find themselves having to be with their babies in the correctional facilities while serving their sentences‚” the department’s spokesman Mocheta Monama said on Tuesday. He said the department was mindful of section 28(1) of the constitution‚ which stated that every child had a right to be treated in a manner appropriate to the child’s age. Monama said Johannesburg and Kgoši Mampuru II Female Correctional Centres were facilities in the Gauteng region which have units that are dedicated to offenders with babies. “The units are aimed at ensuring the needs of babies are as far as possible catered for. As of today‚ a total of 33 babies are accommodated in these facilities‚” Monama said. He said the facilities had been designed with the interests of the child in mind to allow them to experience as normal an existence as possible. “They have creche facilities‚ play areas‚ toys and many others to ensure that babies do not miss out on their growing experience. In a nutshell‚ a lot is invested in the protection and wellbeing of the children.” Monama said incarcerated babies were only allowed to stay with their mothers up to the age of two. “After this period‚ the children are surrendered to the care of a family member whom the mother chooses.” The family member’s suitability is assessed by the department’s social workers. “If there is no family member available or suitable‚ the child is then placed in suitable foster care in collaboration with the Department of Social Development. Mothers then return to the normal women facility to continue their sentence‚” Monama said. However‚ a relationship is ensured between the mother and child through regular visits.