May is Get-caught-reading month. It’s the month when literacy activists remind people of all ages how much fun it is to read for pleasure. It’s a time to encourage family, friends and work colleagues to connect or reconnect with reading – whether that means reading a novel, a picture book, poetry or just your favourite magazine or the sports pages in the newspaper. The easiest way to encourage others to read is by being a reading role model yourself – when you regularly read for enjoyment you show others that reading is a worthwhile leisure activity. Here are some other ways to spread the ‘reading is fun’ message this May: Read anywhere: Show your children that reading can be done anywhere. Read in a bus, taxi, train or even in an aeroplane. Try reading in different places, like on a bench at the park or in a shopping centre. Read at any time: Introduce your children to different ways of having fun with reading! Read together in a different place to where you usually read. For example, read to your children while they are in the bath or when you are together at the table during meal times. Read on your cellphone: Introduce your children to stories on a cellphone. There are lots of stories in various South African languages on the Nal’ibali mobisite and great reads for teenagers on the FunDza mobisite. Get caught reading: Take photos of yourself reading on your own or with others – especially your children - and post them on your Facebook page or on Instagram with the hashtag #GetCaughtReading. Get others reading: Challenge your colleagues at work, your friends and family members to read for 20 minutes every day during May. Nal’ibali is growing a collection of stories in a range of South African languages. You can find them on the Nal’ibali website or mobisite. Enjoy reading this fun story, Silly Thukile retold by Wendy Hartmann with your children. Don’t forget the Get creative! activity at the end of the story. •     Sunday Times Express (Western Cape) – English and isiXhosa – Sunday,  May 13 •     Sunday World (North West Province) – English and Setswana – Sunday, May 13 •     Sunday World (KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng) – English and isiZulu – Sunday, May 13 •     Sunday World (Free State) – English and Sesotho – Sunday, May 13 •     Sunday World (Limpopo) – English and Sepedi– Sunday, May 13 •     English and Xitsonga supplements will be available at selected SA Post Offices and reading clubs in Limpopo •     The Herald (Thursday, May 17) and Daily Dispatch (Tuesday, May 15) (Eastern Cape) – English and isiXhosa. Two lucky readers can win 10 books each week and donate them to a school, reading club or library of their choice. The third runner-up will win a Nal'ibali reading-at-home starter pack. Books are donated by Tiso Blackstar Group and Jacana Media. To enter, contact patti.mcdonald@tisoblackstar.co.za before 5pm on Thursday, May 17 and give one reason why we need to read to children in their mother tongue. Include your name, cellphone number and physical address. Winners will be announced on Friday, May 18. Terms and conditions apply.