Lately slay queens have totally taken over our timelines and tea break conversations and this latest confession on Moja Love's Highly Inappropriate with Phat Joe has left the internet shook beyond repair. A video from the show, which plays on the new DStv channel has gone viral after host Phat Joe sat down with the two women who go by name 'Dubai Girls'. He quizzed them about their frequent trips to Dubai, the kind of lifestyle they're making their money from and how they feel about the labels given to them. "It depends on which manner you are using it (Dubai Girl) but I generally don't care what people call me. I know why I am there and the benefits." The benefits included things like getting a boob job and bagging almost a R1-million for a weekend visit. "A lot happens in Dubai, a lot goes down. Everything is gold, it's like the city of gold." Lelo and Candice used to go to Dubai to "twerk" till they were introduced to another lifestyle in the Arab city. They told Phat Joe they found better things to do than just twerking, which is "spending dzaddy's money." Candice (in pink floral) proudly talked about how she introduced Lelo to the lifestyle and even said she convinced her to participate in a threesome. "Okay what happened was, she's never had a threesome and she was like 'no, I'm just here to twerk and get my money.' I was like 'boo, there's more to this, more money to be made'," said Candice. They proudly said they don't want boyfriends and they prefer 'dzaddies' because they have more guap. Watch the rest of the interview below: Firstly, no one has any right to tell two grown women what to do with their lives or their bodies. That said, their lil excursions were obvs going to stir up some hectic reaction across social media. And boy did the people react! Tweeps couldn't decide if they were more shocked by the girl's openness and pride when they talked about the things they have to do when securing the bag in Dubai or the amount of money and benefits they claimed to bring back from their trips. The reaction had everything from shock, to admiration straight to sympathy and disgust.