The man dubbed the "Springs Monster"‚ who abused and terrorised his five children over a decade‚ was sentenced to an effective 35 years in jail by the North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday. "No child asks to be born and it is the duty of the parent to look after his or her child. None of the five children were cared for‚" said Judge Eben Jordaan. Judge Jordaan said the man had denied pepper-spraying the boy‚ but evidence revealed that he did. The evidence also revealed the abuse the children suffered at his hand. The judge said he agreed with a psychologist who testified that the father is a sadist and psychopath. In August this year‚ the man was found guilty of raping his oldest daughter. She was 16 at the time. He was also found guilty of attempted murder of his then 11-year-old son‚ defeating the ends of justice‚ obstruction of justice‚ five counts of child abuse and five counts of child neglect. Jordaan further found him guilty of dealing in drugs and the possession of drugs. However‚ he was found not guilty for possession and manufacturing of explosives. The man's ex-wife was previously found guilty of defeating the ends of justice‚ obstruction of justice‚ five accounts of child neglect‚ and being in possession of drugs. She was found not guilty of attempted murder of the son‚ possession and manufacturing of explosives‚ five counts of child abuse‚ and dealing in drugs. Judge Jordaan said that he found that the woman was not a suitable candidate for imprisonment. He sentenced her to a five-year suspended sentence on a condition that she was not found guilty of crimes‚ neglect of children‚ obstruction of justice nor the use of drugs. In an affidavit dated September 26‚ the boy who is now 15 years old described in detail the hate he has towards his father. "If I could have‚ I would have killed him myself. I hate him a lot." "When I think about him‚ I hate everything about him. He never loved me. I wish I could get another surname. I do not want to be anything of his anymore. I do not want to be his son. Someone once told me I look like him. I became very angry‚" the boy said. The parents kept their children locked up in their house in Springs‚ in the east of Gauteng. Police arrived at their house back in 2014 after the son escaped and ran to a neighbour for help. At a previous sitting‚ the court heard how the children were blow-torched‚ tied up in a closet and kept handcuffed. Details also emerged of how the father touched the girl's private parts prior to his arrest. The daughter said the man tried to touch her private parts at four occasions and at one stage he could not penetrate her‚ because it was too sore. She also said that he had kissed her private parts. The court also heard how he put his hands in her pants and put his finger inside her‚ and also scratched her. She bled for two days. The children had no friends‚ did not attend school‚ slept on dirty mattresses‚ ate noodles‚ bread and hot chips. In an affidavit the daughter‚ now 20 years old‚ described her disappointment and hurt. She said she had to look after her brothers and sisters at home where they often spent the whole day watching television and were exposed to pornography. Their parents used drugs. "So many things happened and I now know it was not supposed to be like that. My father raped me‚ it is something that I can't talk about‚ he stole something from me. I can't say I hate him‚ I forgave him but will never forget‚" the girl said. Before the father walked down the stairs back to the cells he said: “I will definitely appeal my sentence. I want to see my kids again. They are my whole life.”