Australia's highly secretive signals intelligence agency, tasked with eavesdropping and decrypting adversaries' communications, has made a tongue-in-cheek Twitter debut, while issuing a serious warning of security risks from Chinese technology. The Australian Signals Directorate, a sister agency to Britain's GCHQ or America's NSA, took to the social network as part of what it said was a new, more public-facing communications strategy. "Hi internet, ASD here. Long time listener, first time caller," @ASDGovAu tweeted for the first time. Defence officials confirmed the tweet and account were authentic. The debut tweet was followed by an image containing a visual text puzzle, or cryptogram, of the organisation's acronym and excerpts from a speech by director general Mike Burgess. In his talk, Burgess said ASD was coming "out of the shadows" and stridently defended a government decision to bar Chinese telecoms firms Huawei and ZTE from operating Australia's new 5G network. The long-awaited 3.5GHz system will allow lightning-fast speeds and could allow everyday objects to become intelligent, interconnected devices that feed pools of data - raising security concerns over who can access it. The decision to ban Huawei and ZTE from running the technology has infuriated Beijing and sparked a PR battle over the trustworthiness of those firms. Both operate with Chinese state backing but are among the biggest technology companies in the world. Huawei, founded by a People's Liberation Army researcher, and ZTE have been accused by the US Congress of being tools of the Chinese intelligence services. "5G is not just fast data," Burgess explained in his speech. The technology "will underpin the communications that Australians rely on every day, from our health systems and the potential applications of remote surgery, to self-driving cars and through to the operation of our power and water supply". After studying whether the network could be secure if there were any "high-risk" vendors participating, Burgess indicated the ASD assessment was a firm 'no'. "My advice was to exclude high-risk vendors from the entirety of evolving 5G networks," he said. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said Australia should facilitate cooperation between Chinese and Australian companies "instead of citing all sorts of excuses to erect artificial hurdles and enforce discriminatory measures".