It's Halloween today, and you’d think there’s nothing scarier than watching a grisly, gory horror movie. But how about watching a documentary about an eerie, bizarre or sensational murder that happened in real life? Netflix and Showmax have a wealth of true crime movies and documentary series that’ll be sure to chill you to the bone. Here are some of the highlights: The compelling story of Michael Peterson, a crime novelist accused of killing his wife Kathleen after she was found dead at the bottom of a staircase in their home, and the 16-year judicial battle that followed. The Staircase was produced by Matthieu Belghiti and produced and directed by Academy-award winner Jean-Xavier de Lestrade. Watch it on Netflix. Emmy Award-winning filmmakers Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos return to the Midwest where they have exclusive access to Steven Avery and his co-defendant and nephew Brendan Dassey, their families and the legal teams fighting for justice on their behalf. Over the course of 10 new episodes, it is an in-depth look at the high-stakes post-conviction process, exploring the emotional toll the process takes on all involved. Watch it on Netflix. This terrifying and true documentary investigates the disturbing case of two 12-year-old girls who committed a brutal murder to appease a fictional online bogeyman known as the Slenderman. Watch it on Showmax. From director Ryan White (The Case Against 8, Good Ol’ Freda) comes a riveting seven-part documentary series about the unsolved murder of a Baltimore nun and the horrific secrets and pain that linger nearly five decades after her death. Watch it on Netflix. American multimillionaire property heir Robert Durst literally got away with murder in 2003, even after he admitted to shooting dead and then dismembering his neighbour Morris Black. Believe it or not, Durst nearly got away with murder a second time and it was this documentary series that essentially prevented that from happening. Watch it on Showmax. A law student, a protective mother, a Hooters waitress and others are targeted by men whose affections become dangerous and violent. Watch it on Netflix. The truth behind an extraordinary criminal case known as the “pizza bomber heist” is brought to light in the four-part Evil Genius: The True Story of America’s Most Diabolical Bank Heist.  In 2003 in Erie, Pennsylvania, a robbery gone wrong and a terrifying public murder capture the nation’s attention. A bizarre collection of Midwestern hoarders, outcasts and lawbreakers play cat-and-mouse with the FBI. Watch it on Netflix. • This article is adapted from one originally published on Times Select.