A suspected drug dealer was arrested on Monday night in Westbury‚ Johannesburg‚ after absconding bail in December last year. Police spokesperson captain Kay Makhubele said officers received a tip-off about the man’s whereabouts. “Upon arrival‚ members found that the suspect had gone out and waited for him. After surveillance on the address‚ the said suspect arrived and he was pointed out as he arrived at the gate.” Makhubele said the suspect previously appeared in court under the pseudonym Richard Brown. “With the help of information from the members of Westbury community‚ he was arrested and his correct name verified.” The suspect is expected to appear in the Sophiatown magistrate’s court soon. Drugs‚ drug-dealing and gangsterism have come under the spotlight in Westbury in recent weeks as protests erupted after local resident Heather Petersen was killed by a stray bullet in a shootout between apparent rival drug pedlars. Hundreds have vented their frustrations‚ including taking part in protests‚ which turned violent. Police minister Bheki Cele twice visited the community. The Sunday Times reported that Petersen had accompanied her 10-year-old niece to fetch a school report. On their way home‚ they were caught in the crossfire. Petersen was killed and the niece slightly wounded in a leg. Race has also been brought to sharp focus‚ with apartheid spatial planning. The coloured community saying there is continued marginalisation of the group. The newly established organisation‚ the Gauteng Shutdown Coordinating Committee (GSCC)‚ on Tuesday called for the inclusion of coloured people in South Africa’s economic policies. They marched to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) to deliver their list of demands. “We are just registering‚ to say we are here. The next time we come back‚ hell will break loose‚” GSCC spokesperson Anthony Williams said. “For now we brought community representatives of 13 coloured communities across Gauteng‚ so we are pleased with the outcome.” The GSCC vowed to embark on a “Blood Friday march” to seek justice for Petersen.